bylaws/001-mission-and-structure.md, before:

# Mission Statement

The PHP Framework Interoperability Group (The PHP FIG) aims to advance the PHP ecosystem and promote good standards by bringing together projects and people to collaborate. It develops and publicises standards, informed by real-world experience as well as research and experimentation by itself and others, to form PHP Standard Recommendations (PSRs).

# Structure

## Member Projects

The PHP FIG member projects are known, publicly available PHP projects or significant PHP stakeholder organizations that have shown an interest in supporting the FIG's mission and work. Member Projects must be released projects with known production deployments, not aspirational projects. Member Projects are not required to implement any particular PSR, although are expected to give relevant PSRs due consideration.

A project that exists solely as an extension or plugin of another project is not eligible. However, projects may leverage code, libraries, or frameworks from other projects without being disqualified. In cases where that distinction is unclear Project Representatives should use their best judgment to implement the spirit of this clause.

An application for membership by a project must include a current Project Representative or Core Committee member as a sponsor, the name of the proposed Project Representative, and a description of the project and its relevance to the FIG. The application once posted must be given a discussion period of at least two weeks. Once that period has passed, the sponsoring Representative may call for a Membership Vote. If it passes, the project is recognized as a Member Project with the stated Project Representative. If it does not, a project may reapply at any time if a sponsor may still be found.

A Member Project may resign from the PHP FIG in writing to an official FIG public channel. Once such a statement is published and the resignation is confirmed by a secretary, a PHP project immediately ceases to be a Member Project.

A former Member Project may reapply for membership at any future date.

## Project Representatives

The votes of all Member Projects are cast by Project Representatives who have been authorised to do so by the Member Project. Each Project Representative is chosen solely by a Member Project and their selection is not subject to the approval of the PHP FIG. A Project Representative may be replaced by the Member Project which they represent at any time.

A Member Project may not have more than one Project Representative at a time. No individual may represent more than one project at a time.

A Project Representative may temporarily confer their voting rights or Working Group eligibility onto another individual who is authorised by the Member Project which they represent. This conferral must be notified to the PHP FIG by the current Project Representative, and must state the name of the temporary Project Representative and the period of time for which their temporary voting rights or eligibility will remain valid. All voting rights will automatically return to the original Project Representative at the end of the period of time stated.

If, in the judgement of the PHP FIG, a Project Representative is acting inappropriately and to the detriment of the PHP FIG's ability to meet its objectives, any member of the Core Committee may call an Expulsion Vote to request a replacement Project Representative or to expel the Member Project where replacing a Project Representative is not possible. In these instances the Member Project/Project Represenative concerned may not vote. If a member project is expelled it may reapply for membership after a minimum of one year. If a project representative is voted to be replaced, they may not return to represent the project they represented at the time of the vote, or any other project, indefinitely.

A Project Representative may also simultaneously serve as a Core Committee member, PSR Editor or Working Group member but not as a Secretary.

## The Core Committee

The Core Committee is a twelve (12) member board of individuals recognized for their technical skill and expertise. The Core Committee is responsible for final decisions regarding what specifications FIG will consider and those that are approved. The Core Committee is responsible for ensuring a high level of quality and consistency amongst all published specifications, and that all relevant perspectives and use cases are given due consideration.

Core Committee members are not permitted to also be a Secretary. A Project Representative is permitted but not required to also serve as a member of the Core Committee, however, Core Committee members are expected to consider the impact of their actions on the PHP ecosystem as a whole when acting in their capacity as a Core Committee member

Core Committee members are expected to take an active interest in all topics brought before FIG.

## Secretaries

The primary responsibility of a FIG Secretary is to serve as an impartial administrator of the FIG. They serve at the member projects and core committee's pleasure but act as independent and impartial adjudicators. FIG Secretaries also represent the FIG as a whole to the general community and public on matters relating to the FIG's activities.

Whilst there are a number of defined functions below but they should also perform other duties as required. As the role has continuity (in that there will always be a post holder) and redundancy (There are a number of post holders in case of the absence of one) it can be ensured that responsibilities assigned to the secretary will always be completed and therefore administrative responsibilities such as vote management should always be assigned to the FIG Secretary.

All FIG Secretaries are expected to remain impartial and professional when acting in an official capacity as Secretary and should also remain aware that even when not acting in an official capacity, their actions reflect back on the PHP FIG and the FIG must not be brought into disrepute.

In order to ensure impartiality, Secretaries may not concurrently serve as a Project Representative, Core Committee Member, or Editor of a PSR. They may, however, be a member of a Working Group. Secretaries must also publicly declare all conflicts of interest for example if they are participating in a working group or are a core team member of a Member Project.

### Defined functions

There are a number of defined functions that the FIG Secretaries are expected to complete but they may also, within their remit defined in the above overarching role, perform other duties as necessary.

* Managing the website
* GitHub organization and repository administration
* Tallying votes and managing the voting system
* Tracking member project activity
* Ensuring bylaws are being followed
* Clarifying any interpretation of bylaw text, subject to a lack of objection from Core Committee members and Project Representatives**
* Ensure that relevant marketing mediums (e.g. Twitter and Facebook) are kept professional, up to date and impartial
* Moderate discussions on github, the mailing list, IRC channels and other official communication mediums to ensure that an appropriate environment is maintained. This includes the ability to restrict posting and impose bans with the exception that they cannot permanently ban or restrict a Core Committee member or Project Representative
* Should there be a FIG meeting at a conference or other ad hoc gathering any Secretary in attendance should take notes to report back to the mailing list
* Acting throughout their term essentially as Developer Advocates for the PHP FIG

 ** Should any bylaw clarification by challenged or objected to by three or more project representatives or core committee members it must go to a vote. If between Secretaries consensus cannot be found on a clarification, it must go to a full vote.

### Access and Abilities

FIG Secretaries will be given access to the GitHub organisation as "Owners" and full (admin) access to anything relating to official website, marketing and communication mediums including but not limited to the domain, Twitter, IRC channel, packagist.org packages and mailing list in order to allow them to complete their duties and ensure that FIG mediums are managed by representatives elected by the PHP FIG.

Also, whilst not full members themselves, they have the ability to start any vote, but not cast any votes. However it should be noted that any vote started by one FIG Secretary must be managed and tallied by a different secretary to ensure impartiality.

## Working Groups

Working Groups are principally responsible for the development of the content of a PSR. Members of a Working Group are expected to be actively engaged in the development of a PSR and in discussions relating to it.

Members of the general public may apply to join the Working Group at any time, subject to the approval of the Editor or Sponsor if, in their judgment, the applicant's experience and perspective would be particularly valuable to the development of the specification. Project Representatives or a proxy they specify may apply to join the Working Group at any time, unless objected to by the Editor or Sponsor if, in their judgement, the applicant has little value to offer the process and/or would be disruptive to the smooth functioning of the Working Group.

A Working Group member may be removed at any time by the Editor and Sponsor if, in their judgement, the individual has become inactive for more than 30 days or if the individual is disruptive to the smooth functioning of the Working Group.

### Editor

The Editor of a PSR is an individual who is actively involved in managing and tracking a PSR as it is written. The Editor is responsible for managing the development of a PSR; for representing the PSR in discussions with the rest of the PHP FIG; for coordinating other contributors; and for working with the Sponsor to see the PSR through the review process. Any individual may be an Editor, provided they are not also a Secretary. If the Editor of a proposal is missing for more than 45 days without notice then the Sponsor and Core Committee may agree upon a new Editor. The Editor is the final authority on the content of a PSR while it is in Draft.

### Sponsor

A PSR must be sponsored by a member of the Core Committee. That individual is the Sponsor. The Sponsor may not also be the Editor. One person may be the sponsor on multiple PSRs and they provide a level of oversight on the PSR's drafting on behalf of the Core Committee, and representation of the PSR Working Group to the Core Committee. Multiple other Core Committee members may also be on the working group if they wish.

Commit message:

Add expectation of compliance with the Code Manifesto, to serve as a code of conduct.

bylaws/001-mission-and-structure.md, after:

# Mission Statement

The PHP Framework Interoperability Group (The PHP FIG) aims to advance the PHP ecosystem and promote good standards by bringing together projects and people to collaborate. It develops and publicises standards, informed by real-world experience as well as research and experimentation by itself and others, to form PHP Standard Recommendations (PSRs).

# Structure

## Member Projects

The PHP FIG member projects are known, publicly available PHP projects or significant PHP stakeholder organizations that have shown an interest in supporting the FIG's mission and work. Member Projects must be released projects with known production deployments, not aspirational projects. Member Projects are not required to implement any particular PSR, although are expected to give relevant PSRs due consideration.

A project that exists solely as an extension or plugin of another project is not eligible. However, projects may leverage code, libraries, or frameworks from other projects without being disqualified. In cases where that distinction is unclear Project Representatives should use their best judgment to implement the spirit of this clause.

An application for membership by a project must include a current Project Representative or Core Committee member as a sponsor, the name of the proposed Project Representative, and a description of the project and its relevance to the FIG. The application once posted must be given a discussion period of at least two weeks. Once that period has passed, the sponsoring Representative may call for a Membership Vote. If it passes, the project is recognized as a Member Project with the stated Project Representative. If it does not, a project may reapply at any time if a sponsor may still be found.

A Member Project may resign from the PHP FIG in writing to an official FIG public channel. Once such a statement is published and the resignation is confirmed by a secretary, a PHP project immediately ceases to be a Member Project.

A former Member Project may reapply for membership at any future date.

## Project Representatives

The votes of all Member Projects are cast by Project Representatives who have been authorised to do so by the Member Project. Each Project Representative is chosen solely by a Member Project and their selection is not subject to the approval of the PHP FIG. A Project Representative may be replaced by the Member Project which they represent at any time.

A Member Project may not have more than one Project Representative at a time. No individual may represent more than one project at a time.

A Project Representative may temporarily confer their voting rights or Working Group eligibility onto another individual who is authorised by the Member Project which they represent. This conferral must be notified to the PHP FIG by the current Project Representative, and must state the name of the temporary Project Representative and the period of time for which their temporary voting rights or eligibility will remain valid. All voting rights will automatically return to the original Project Representative at the end of the period of time stated.

If, in the judgement of the PHP FIG, a Project Representative is acting inappropriately and to the detriment of the PHP FIG's ability to meet its objectives, any member of the Core Committee may call an Expulsion Vote to request a replacement Project Representative or to expel the Member Project where replacing a Project Representative is not possible. In these instances the Member Project/Project Represenative concerned may not vote. If a member project is expelled it may reapply for membership after a minimum of one year. If a project representative is voted to be replaced, they may not return to represent the project they represented at the time of the vote, or any other project, indefinitely.

A Project Representative may also simultaneously serve as a Core Committee member, PSR Editor or Working Group member but not as a Secretary.

## Conduct

All individuals involved with FIG either in an official capacity (Secretary, Core Committee, Project Representative, Editor, or Working Group member) or informally (such as participating in discussions) are expected to conduct themselves in a professional manner at all times.  All individuals are expected to behave in a manner consistent with the Code Manifesto.  Failure to do so will be considered grounds for expulsion.

In the case of an individual holding a formal position, a Recall or Expulsion Vote may be called to remove the individual in question.  In the case of any other individual, any two Secretaries may issue a formal warning to the individual in question or issue a temporary or permanent ban from all FIG-related communication channels, as appropriate to the situation.

The Editor and Sponsor of a Working Group may jointly remove any member of the Working Group for failure to abide by the Code Manifesto at any time.

## The Core Committee

The Core Committee is a twelve (12) member board of individuals recognized for their technical skill and expertise. The Core Committee is responsible for final decisions regarding what specifications FIG will consider and those that are approved. The Core Committee is responsible for ensuring a high level of quality and consistency amongst all published specifications, and that all relevant perspectives and use cases are given due consideration.

Core Committee members are not permitted to also be a Secretary. A Project Representative is permitted but not required to also serve as a member of the Core Committee, however, Core Committee members are expected to consider the impact of their actions on the PHP ecosystem as a whole when acting in their capacity as a Core Committee member

Core Committee members are expected to take an active interest in all topics brought before FIG.

## Secretaries

The primary responsibility of a FIG Secretary is to serve as an impartial administrator of the FIG. They serve at the member projects and core committee's pleasure but act as independent and impartial adjudicators. FIG Secretaries also represent the FIG as a whole to the general community and public on matters relating to the FIG's activities.

Whilst there are a number of defined functions below but they should also perform other duties as required. As the role has continuity (in that there will always be a post holder) and redundancy (There are a number of post holders in case of the absence of one) it can be ensured that responsibilities assigned to the secretary will always be completed and therefore administrative responsibilities such as vote management should always be assigned to the FIG Secretary.

All FIG Secretaries are expected to remain impartial and professional when acting in an official capacity as Secretary and should also remain aware that even when not acting in an official capacity, their actions reflect back on the PHP FIG and the FIG must not be brought into disrepute.

In order to ensure impartiality, Secretaries may not concurrently serve as a Project Representative, Core Committee Member, or Editor of a PSR. They may, however, be a member of a Working Group. Secretaries must also publicly declare all conflicts of interest for example if they are participating in a working group or are a core team member of a Member Project.

### Defined functions

There are a number of defined functions that the FIG Secretaries are expected to complete but they may also, within their remit defined in the above overarching role, perform other duties as necessary.

* Managing the website
* GitHub organization and repository administration
* Tallying votes and managing the voting system
* Tracking member project activity
* Ensuring bylaws are being followed
* Clarifying any interpretation of bylaw text, subject to a lack of objection from Core Committee members and Project Representatives**
* Ensure that relevant marketing mediums (e.g. Twitter and Facebook) are kept professional, up to date and impartial
* Moderate discussions on github, the mailing list, IRC channels and other official communication mediums to ensure that an appropriate environment is maintained. This includes the ability to restrict posting and impose bans with the exception that they cannot permanently ban or restrict a Core Committee member or Project Representative
* Should there be a FIG meeting at a conference or other ad hoc gathering any Secretary in attendance should take notes to report back to the mailing list
* Acting throughout their term essentially as Developer Advocates for the PHP FIG

 ** Should any bylaw clarification by challenged or objected to by three or more project representatives or core committee members it must go to a vote. If between Secretaries consensus cannot be found on a clarification, it must go to a full vote.

### Access and Abilities

FIG Secretaries will be given access to the GitHub organisation as "Owners" and full (admin) access to anything relating to official website, marketing and communication mediums including but not limited to the domain, Twitter, IRC channel, packagist.org packages and mailing list in order to allow them to complete their duties and ensure that FIG mediums are managed by representatives elected by the PHP FIG.

Also, whilst not full members themselves, they have the ability to start any vote, but not cast any votes. However it should be noted that any vote started by one FIG Secretary must be managed and tallied by a different secretary to ensure impartiality.

## Working Groups

Working Groups are principally responsible for the development of the content of a PSR. Members of a Working Group are expected to be actively engaged in the development of a PSR and in discussions relating to it.

Members of the general public may apply to join the Working Group at any time, subject to the approval of the Editor or Sponsor if, in their judgment, the applicant's experience and perspective would be particularly valuable to the development of the specification. Project Representatives or a proxy they specify may apply to join the Working Group at any time, unless objected to by the Editor or Sponsor if, in their judgement, the applicant has little value to offer the process and/or would be disruptive to the smooth functioning of the Working Group.

A Working Group member may be removed at any time by the Editor and Sponsor if, in their judgement, the individual has become inactive for more than 30 days or if the individual is disruptive to the smooth functioning of the Working Group.

### Editor

The Editor of a PSR is an individual who is actively involved in managing and tracking a PSR as it is written. The Editor is responsible for managing the development of a PSR; for representing the PSR in discussions with the rest of the PHP FIG; for coordinating other contributors; and for working with the Sponsor to see the PSR through the review process. Any individual may be an Editor, provided they are not also a Secretary. If the Editor of a proposal is missing for more than 45 days without notice then the Sponsor and Core Committee may agree upon a new Editor. The Editor is the final authority on the content of a PSR while it is in Draft.

### Sponsor

A PSR must be sponsored by a member of the Core Committee. That individual is the Sponsor. The Sponsor may not also be the Editor. One person may be the sponsor on multiple PSRs and they provide a level of oversight on the PSR's drafting on behalf of the Core Committee, and representation of the PSR Working Group to the Core Committee. Multiple other Core Committee members may also be on the working group if they wish.
