bylaws/009-funding.md, before:

# Funding

## Scope and objectives

PHP-FIG is, as it often happens in Open Source communities, an organization composed by volunteers only; this doesn't exclude the fact that the organization itself may have some costs to sustain itself, for example maintaining tools such as a site and an email account. For such and similar reasons, we need a way to raise and govern money inside our organization.

This document defines the roles, rules and processes that must be followed inside the PHP-FIG in all matters regarding money, to guarantee fairness, transparency and impartiality. This document intentionally describes the only allowed processes and ways to raise, administer and spend money, so that any change to such processes requires a bylaw change vote. 

## Fiscal hosting

For handling money and fiscal matters, the PHP-FIG will use [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/) as a platform and [Open Source Collective](https://opencollective.com/opensource) as a fiscal host.
All three Secretaries, but only the Secretaries, will have full administrative access to PHP-FIG's OpenCollective account.  They do not have discretionary authority, however, except as stated explicitly in this bylaw.

All monetary contributions will flow through Open Collective, so that any tax considerations will be handled automatically, and every financial decision will be published and publicly available through Open Collective's budgetary tools.

# Raising money

PHP-FIG accepts donations through multiple channels.  Only the Secretaries may actively solicit donations from any party.  No other PHP-FIG member may do so.

### Through OpenCollective

Direct contributions will be accepted through OpenCollective.

### Through TideLift

Contributions will be accepted through [TideLift](https://tidelift.com/).  They will pay out to the OpenCollective account.

### Through Thanks.dev

Contributions will be accepted through [Thanks.dev](https://thanks.dev).  They will pay out to the OpenCollective account.

## Spending money

Funds donated to the PHP-FIG are to be used for non-personnel operating expenses.  PHP-FIG does not pay individual contributors to PHP-FIG standards or working groups.
All operating or capital expenses must be approved by an Approval Vote of the Core Committee.  The expense must include whether it is one time or recurring and at which frequency.  All expenses must be justified by their contribution to the mission of PHP-FIG.

Expenses approved by the Core Committee will be listed below.

### Overfunding, and giving back to the community

PHP-FIG will maintain financial reserves to account for three years of the currently approved budget.
At least once a year, any surplus funds will be forwarded to the [PHP Foundation](https://opencollective.com/phpfoundation) as a way to further support the PHP ecosystem.

### Approved expenses

This section will contain a chronological list of approved budgeting decisions, either recurring or not.

As an exception to Votes Bylaw, changes to this section only will not trigger a Bylaw Change Vote, but only an Approval Vote by the Core Committee, as explained in the "Spending Money" section.

| Approved since | Expense                                       | Provider  | Approved amount and frequency  |
|----------------|-----------------------------------------------|-----------|--------------------------------|
| TBA            | Two Domains (`php-fig.com` and `php-fig.org`) | Namecheap | Up to 15 USD / year per domain |
| TBA            | Email account (`info@php-fig.org`)            | Namecheap | Up to 15 USD / year            |

Commit message:

Apply changes to avoid accepting donations; clarify wording using RFC 2119

bylaws/009-funding.md, after:

# Funding

## Scope and objectives

PHP-FIG is, as it often happens in Open Source communities, an organization composed by volunteers only; this doesn't exclude the fact that the organization itself may have some costs to sustain itself, for example maintaining tools such as a site and an email account. For such and similar reasons, we need a way to raise and govern money inside our organization.

This document defines the roles, rules and processes that must be followed inside the PHP-FIG in all matters regarding money, to guarantee fairness, transparency and impartiality. This document intentionally describes the only allowed processes and ways to raise, administer and spend money, so that any change to such processes requires a bylaw change vote. 

The keywords "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119][].

## Fiscal hosting

For handling money and fiscal matters, the PHP-FIG MUST use [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/) as a platform and [Open Source Collective](https://opencollective.com/opensource) as a fiscal host.
All three Secretaries, but only the Secretaries, MUST have full administrative access to PHP-FIG's OpenCollective account. They SHALL NOT use those permissions in a discretionary manner, except as stated explicitly in this bylaw.

All monetary contributions MUST flow through Open Collective, so that any tax considerations will be handled automatically, and every financial decision MUST be published and publicly available here and through Open Collective's budgetary tools.

# Raising money

PHP-FIG SHALL NOT solicit donations from any party, especially from private individuals. The only allowed funding sources MUST be listed below.

### Through OpenCollective

Direct contributions MUST NOT be accepted through OpenCollective; the collective home page MUST be set up in a way that:
 * all contribution sections and features are hidden and/or disabled, if possible;
 * explicit wording will be visible reminding visitors of the PHP-FIG stance in the matter.

### Through TideLift

Contributions will be accepted through [TideLift](https://tidelift.com/). All three Secretaries, but only the Secretaries, MUST have full administrative access to PHP-FIG's TideLift account, which MUST be configured to pay out to the Open Collective account. 

## Spending money

Funds donated to the PHP-FIG MUST NOT be used for non-personnel operating expenses.  PHP-FIG SHALL NOT pay individual contributors to PHP-FIG standards or working groups.
All operating or capital expenses MUST be approved by an Approval Vote of the Core Committee.  The expense MUST include whether it is one time or recurring and at which frequency.  All expenses MUST be justified by their contribution to the mission of PHP-FIG.

Expenses approved by the Core Committee MUST be listed below, and reported in the Open Collective budget.

### Overfunding, and giving back to the community

PHP-FIG SHOULD maintain financial reserves to account for three years of the currently approved budget.
At least once a year, any surplus funds MUST be forwarded to the [PHP Foundation](https://opencollective.com/phpfoundation), as a way to further support the PHP ecosystem.

### Approved expenses

This section will contain a chronological list of approved budgeting decisions, either recurring or not.

As an exception to Votes Bylaw, changes to this section only SHOULD NOT trigger a Bylaw Change Vote, but only an Approval Vote by the Core Committee, as explained in the "Spending Money" section.

| Approved since | Expense                                       | Provider  | Approved amount and frequency  |
|----------------|-----------------------------------------------|-----------|--------------------------------|
| TBA            | Two Domains (`php-fig.com` and `php-fig.org`) | Namecheap | Up to 15 USD / year per domain |
| TBA            | Email account (`info@php-fig.org`)            | Namecheap | Up to 15 USD / year            |

[RFC 2119]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119
