proposed/event-dispatcher-meta.md, before:

Event Dispatcher Meta Document
==============================

## 1. Summary

The purpose of this document is to describe the rationale and logic behind the Event Dispatcher PSR.

## 2. Why Bother?

Many libraries, components, and frameworks have long supported mechanisms for allowing arbitrary third party code to interact with them.  Most are variations on the classic Observer pattern, often mediated through an intermediary object or service.  Others take a more Aspect-Oriented Programming (AOP) approach.  Nonetheless all have the same basic concept: interupt program flow at a fixed point to provide information to arbitrary third party libraries with information about the action being performed and allow them to either react or influence the program behavior.

This is a well-established model, but a standard mechanism by which libraries do so will allow them to interoperate with more and more varied third party libraries with less effort by both the original developer and extension developers.

## 3. Scope

### 3.1 Goals

* Simplify and standardize the process by which libraries and components may expose themselves to extension via "events" so that they may be more easily incorporated into applications and frameworks.
* Simplify and standardize the process by which libraries and components may register an interest in responding to an event so that they may be more easily incorporated into arbitrary applications and frameworks.
* To the extent feasible, ease the process for existing code bases to transition toward this specification.

### 3.2 Non-Goals

* Asynchronous systems often have a concept of an "event loop" to manage interleaving coroutines.  That is an unrelated matter and explicitly irrelevant to this specification.
* Storage systems implementing an "Event Source" pattern also have a concept of an "event".  That is unrelated to the events discussed here and explicitly out of scope.
* Strict backward compatibility with existing event systems is not a priority and is not expected.
* While this specification will undoubtedly suggest implementation patterns, it does not seek to define One True Event Dispatcher Implementation, only how callers and listeners communicate with that dispatcher.

## 4. Approaches

### 4.1 Use cases considered

The Working Group identified four possible workflows for event passing, based on use cases seen in the wild in various systems.

* One-way notification.  ("I did a thing, if you care.")
* Object enhancement.  ("Here's a thing, please modify it before I do something with it.")
* Collection.  ("Give me all your things, that I may do something with that list.")
* Alternative chain.  ("Here's a thing; the first one of you that can handle it do so, then stop.")

On further review, it was determined that Collection was a special case of Object enhancement (the collection being the object that is enhanced).  Alternative chain is similarly a special case of Object enhancement, as the signature is identical and the dispatch workflow is nearly identical.  That leaves two relevant workflows:

* Notification
* Modification

Notification can safely be done asynchronously (including delaying it through a queue) but Modification by nature involve passing data back to the caller and thus must be synchronous.  Despite that difference the Working Group determined that the use cases were close enough to be considered in a single PSR.  The two different workflows however are represented by two different interfaces, `MessageNotifierInterface` (for Messages) and `TaskProcessorInterface` (for Tasks).

### 4.2 Immutable events

Initially the Working Group wished to define all Events as immutable message objects, similar to PSR-7.  However, that proved problematic in the Processor case.  In both of those cases Listeners needed a way to return data to the caller.  In concept there were three possible avenues:

* Make the event mutable and modify it in place.
* Require that events be evolvable (immutable but with `with*()` methods like PSR-7 and PSR-13) and that listeners return the event to pass along.
* Make the Event immutable but aggregate and return the return value from each Listener.

However, Stoppable Task (the alternative chain case) also needed to have a channel by which to indicate that further listeners should not be called.  That could be done either by:

* Modifying the Task (`stopPropagation()`)
* Returning a sentinel value from the listener (`true` or `false`) to indicate that propagation should terminate.
* Evolving the Task to be stopped (`withPropagationStopped()`)

Of those, the first would mandate a mutable Task in at least some cases.  The second would mandate a mutable Task as the return value was already in use.  And the third seemed unnecessarily ceremonial and pedantic.

Having listeners return evolvable tasks also posed a challenge.  That pattern is not used by any known implementations in PHP or elsewhere.  It also relies on the listener to remember to return the object (extra work for the listener author) and to not return some other, new object that might not be fully compatible with later listeners (such as a subclass or superclass of the event).

Immutable events also rely on the event definer to respect the admonition to be immutable.  Events are, by nature, very loosely designed and the potential for implementers to ignore that part of the spec, even inadvertently, is high.

That left two possible options:

* Allow tasks to be mutable.
* Require, but be unable to enforce, immutable objects with a high-ceremony interface, more work for listener authors, and a higher potential for breakage that may not be detectable at compile time.

Given those options the Working Group felt mutable tasks were the safer alternative.

The Message Notification use case, however, has no need for return communication so those issues are moot.  Those objects therefore MUST be treated as immutable, regardless of what the object's methods are.

### 4.3 Listener registration

Experimentation during development of the specification determined that there were a wide range of viable, legitimate means by which a Notifier or Processor could be informed of a listener.

* A listener could be registered explicitly; it could be the registered explicitly based on reflection of its signature;
* it could be registered with a numeric priority order;
* it could be registered using a before/after mechanism to control ordering more precisely;
* it could be registered from a service container;
* it could use a pre-compile step to generate code;
* it could be based on method names on objects in the event itself.

These and other mechanisms all exist in the wild today in PHP, all are valid use cases worth supporting, and few if any can be conveniently represented as a special case of another.  That is, standardizing one way, or even a small set of ways, to inform the system of a listener turned out to be impractical if not impossible without cutting off many use cases that should be supported.

The Working Group therefore chose to encapsulate the registration of listeners behind the `ListenerProviderInterface`.  A provider object may have an explicit registration mechanism available, or multiple such mechanisms, or none.  It could also be generated code produced by some compile step.  That is up to the implementer.  However, that also splits the responsibility of managing the process of dispatching an event from the process of mapping an event to listeners.  That way different implementations may be mixed-and-matched with different provider mechanisms as needed.

While combining the Notifier, Processor, and Provider into a single object is a valid and permissible degenerate case, it is NOT RECOMMENDED as it reduces the flexibility of system integrators.  Instead, the provider should be composed as a dependent object.

## 5. People

The Event Manager Working Group consisted of:

### 5.1 Editor

* Larry Garfield

### 5.2 Sponsor

Cees-Jan Kiewiet

### Working Group Members

Benjamin Mack
Elizabeth Smith
Ryan Weaver
Matthew Weier O'Phinney

## 6. Votes

* [Entrance vote](https://groups.google.com/d/topic/php-fig/6kQFX-lhuk4/discussion)

7. Relevant Links
-----------------

* [Inspiration Mailing List Thread](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/php-fig/-EJOStgxAwY)
* [Entrance vote](https://groups.google.com/d/topic/php-fig/6kQFX-lhuk4/discussion)

Commit message:

Add table of Message vs Task differences.

proposed/event-dispatcher-meta.md, after:

Event Dispatcher Meta Document
==============================

## 1. Summary

The purpose of this document is to describe the rationale and logic behind the Event Dispatcher PSR.

## 2. Why Bother?

Many libraries, components, and frameworks have long supported mechanisms for allowing arbitrary third party code to interact with them.  Most are variations on the classic Observer pattern, often mediated through an intermediary object or service.  Others take a more Aspect-Oriented Programming (AOP) approach.  Nonetheless all have the same basic concept: interupt program flow at a fixed point to provide information to arbitrary third party libraries with information about the action being performed and allow them to either react or influence the program behavior.

This is a well-established model, but a standard mechanism by which libraries do so will allow them to interoperate with more and more varied third party libraries with less effort by both the original developer and extension developers.

## 3. Scope

### 3.1 Goals

* Simplify and standardize the process by which libraries and components may expose themselves to extension via "events" so that they may be more easily incorporated into applications and frameworks.
* Simplify and standardize the process by which libraries and components may register an interest in responding to an event so that they may be more easily incorporated into arbitrary applications and frameworks.
* To the extent feasible, ease the process for existing code bases to transition toward this specification.

### 3.2 Non-Goals

* Asynchronous systems often have a concept of an "event loop" to manage interleaving coroutines.  That is an unrelated matter and explicitly irrelevant to this specification.
* Storage systems implementing an "Event Source" pattern also have a concept of an "event".  That is unrelated to the events discussed here and explicitly out of scope.
* Strict backward compatibility with existing event systems is not a priority and is not expected.
* While this specification will undoubtedly suggest implementation patterns, it does not seek to define One True Event Dispatcher Implementation, only how callers and listeners communicate with that dispatcher.

## 4. Approaches

### 4.1 Use cases considered

The Working Group identified four possible workflows for event passing, based on use cases seen in the wild in various systems.

* One-way notification.  ("I did a thing, if you care.")
* Object enhancement.  ("Here's a thing, please modify it before I do something with it.")
* Collection.  ("Give me all your things, that I may do something with that list.")
* Alternative chain.  ("Here's a thing; the first one of you that can handle it do so, then stop.")

On further review, it was determined that Collection was a special case of Object enhancement (the collection being the object that is enhanced).  Alternative chain is similarly a special case of Object enhancement, as the signature is identical and the dispatch workflow is nearly identical.  That leaves two relevant workflows:

* Notification
* Modification

Notification can safely be done asynchronously (including delaying it through a queue) but Modification by nature involve passing data back to the caller and thus must be synchronous.  Despite that difference the Working Group determined that the use cases were close enough to be considered in a single PSR.  The two different workflows however are represented by two different interfaces, `MessageNotifierInterface` (for Messages) and `TaskProcessorInterface` (for Tasks).

### 4.2 Immutable events

Initially the Working Group wished to define all Events as immutable message objects, similar to PSR-7.  However, that proved problematic in the Processor case.  In both of those cases Listeners needed a way to return data to the caller.  In concept there were three possible avenues:

* Make the event mutable and modify it in place.
* Require that events be evolvable (immutable but with `with*()` methods like PSR-7 and PSR-13) and that listeners return the event to pass along.
* Make the Event immutable but aggregate and return the return value from each Listener.

However, Stoppable Task (the alternative chain case) also needed to have a channel by which to indicate that further listeners should not be called.  That could be done either by:

* Modifying the Task (`stopPropagation()`)
* Returning a sentinel value from the listener (`true` or `false`) to indicate that propagation should terminate.
* Evolving the Task to be stopped (`withPropagationStopped()`)

Of those, the first would mandate a mutable Task in at least some cases.  The second would mandate a mutable Task as the return value was already in use.  And the third seemed unnecessarily ceremonial and pedantic.

Having listeners return evolvable tasks also posed a challenge.  That pattern is not used by any known implementations in PHP or elsewhere.  It also relies on the listener to remember to return the object (extra work for the listener author) and to not return some other, new object that might not be fully compatible with later listeners (such as a subclass or superclass of the event).

Immutable events also rely on the event definer to respect the admonition to be immutable.  Events are, by nature, very loosely designed and the potential for implementers to ignore that part of the spec, even inadvertently, is high.

That left two possible options:

* Allow tasks to be mutable.
* Require, but be unable to enforce, immutable objects with a high-ceremony interface, more work for listener authors, and a higher potential for breakage that may not be detectable at compile time.

Given those options the Working Group felt mutable tasks were the safer alternative.

The Message Notification use case, however, has no need for return communication so those issues are moot.  Those objects therefore MUST be treated as immutable, regardless of what the object's methods are.

### 4.3 Listener registration

Experimentation during development of the specification determined that there were a wide range of viable, legitimate means by which a Notifier or Processor could be informed of a listener.

* A listener could be registered explicitly; it could be the registered explicitly based on reflection of its signature;
* it could be registered with a numeric priority order;
* it could be registered using a before/after mechanism to control ordering more precisely;
* it could be registered from a service container;
* it could use a pre-compile step to generate code;
* it could be based on method names on objects in the event itself.

These and other mechanisms all exist in the wild today in PHP, all are valid use cases worth supporting, and few if any can be conveniently represented as a special case of another.  That is, standardizing one way, or even a small set of ways, to inform the system of a listener turned out to be impractical if not impossible without cutting off many use cases that should be supported.

The Working Group therefore chose to encapsulate the registration of listeners behind the `ListenerProviderInterface`.  A provider object may have an explicit registration mechanism available, or multiple such mechanisms, or none.  It could also be generated code produced by some compile step.  That is up to the implementer.  However, that also splits the responsibility of managing the process of dispatching an event from the process of mapping an event to listeners.  That way different implementations may be mixed-and-matched with different provider mechanisms as needed.

While combining the Notifier, Processor, and Provider into a single object is a valid and permissible degenerate case, it is NOT RECOMMENDED as it reduces the flexibility of system integrators.  Instead, the provider should be composed as a dependent object.

### 4.4 Distinction

Despite their similarities, the Message and Task pipelines have two distinct workflows and use cases.

| Messages                      | Tasks
|-------------------------------|-------------------------------
| Must be immutable             | May me mutable
| Must be serializable          | May be serializable
| May be delayed                | Must be processed immediately
| Listener order not guaranteed | Listener order is guaranteed
| All listeners will fire       | Listeners may short-circuit the pipeline
| One-way communication only    | May be one-way or two-way communication



## 5. People

The Event Manager Working Group consisted of:

### 5.1 Editor

* Larry Garfield

### 5.2 Sponsor

Cees-Jan Kiewiet

### Working Group Members

Benjamin Mack
Elizabeth Smith
Ryan Weaver
Matthew Weier O'Phinney

## 6. Votes

* [Entrance vote](https://groups.google.com/d/topic/php-fig/6kQFX-lhuk4/discussion)

7. Relevant Links
-----------------

* [Inspiration Mailing List Thread](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/php-fig/-EJOStgxAwY)
* [Entrance vote](https://groups.google.com/d/topic/php-fig/6kQFX-lhuk4/discussion)
