proposed/http-message-meta.md, before:

HTTP Message Meta Document
==========================

1. Summary
----------

The purpose of this proposal is to provide a set of common interfaces for HTTP
messages as described in [RFC 7230] and [RFC 7231].

[RFC 7230]: http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc7230.txt
[RFC 7231]: http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc7231.txt

All HTTP messages consist of the HTTP protocol version being used, headers, and
a message body. A _Request_ builds on the message to include the HTTP method
used to make the request, and the URI to which the request is made. A
_Response_ includes the HTTP status code and reason phrase.

In PHP, HTTP messages are used in two contexts:

- To send an HTTP request from a client, such as cURL, a web browser, etc., to
  be fulfilled by a server, which will return an HTTP response. In other words,
  PHP can use HTTP messages when acting as an _HTTP client_.
- To process an incoming HTTP request to a server, and return an HTTP response
  to the client making the request. PHP can use HTTP messages when used as a
  _server-side application_ to fulfill HTTP requests.

This proposal presents an API for describing HTTP messages in PHP in a way
that is as simple as possible while simultaneously producing no limits on
functionality.

2. Why Bother?
--------------

HTTP messages are used in a wide number of PHP projects -- both clients and
servers. In each case, we observe one or more of the following patterns or
situations:

1. Projects will create implementations from scratch.
2. Projects may require a specific HTTP client/server library that provides
   HTTP message implementations.
3. Projects may create adapters for common HTTP message implementations.

As examples:

1. Frameworks such as Symfony and Zend Framework each define HTTP components
   that form the basis of their MVC layers; even small, single-purpose
   libraries such as oauth2-server-php provide and require their own HTTP
   request/response implementations. Guzzle, Buzz, and other HTTP client
   implementations each create their own HTTP message implementations as well.
2. Projects such as Silex and Stack have hard dependencies on Symfony's HTTP
   kernel. Any SDK built on Guzzle has a hard requirement on Guzzle's HTTP message
   implementations.
3. Projects such as Geocoder create redundant [adapters for common
   libraries](https://github.com/geocoder-php/Geocoder/tree/6a729c6869f55ad55ae641c74ac9ce7731635e6e/src/Geocoder/HttpAdapter).

The net result is that projects are not capable of interoperability or
cross-pollination. In order to consume code targeting one framework from
another, the first order of business is building a bridge layer between the
HTTP message implementations. On the client-side, if a particular library does
not have an adapter you can utilize, you need to bridge the request/response
pairs if you wish to use an adapter from another library.

Thus, the goal of this proposal is to abstract both client- and server-side
request and response interfaces in order to promote interoperability between
projects. If projects implement these interfaces, a reasonable level of
compatibility may be assumed when adopting code from different libraries.

It should be noted that the goal of this proposal is not to obsolete the
current interfaces utilized by existing PHP libraries. This proposal is aimed
at interoperability between PHP packages for the purpose of describing HTTP
messages.

3. Scope
--------

### 3.1 Goals

* Provide the interfaces needed for describing HTTP messages.
* Keep the interfaces as minimal as possible.
* Ensure that the API does not impose arbitrary limits on HTTP messages. For
  example, some HTTP message bodies can be too large to store in memory, so we
  must account for this.
* Provide useful abstractions both for handling incoming requests for
  server-side applications and sending outgoing requests in HTTP clients.

### 3.2 Non-Goals

* This proposal does not expect all HTTP client libraries or server-side
  frameworks to change their interfaces to conform. It is strictly meant for
  interoperability.
* While everyone's perception of what is and is not an implementation detail
  varies, this proposal should not impose implementation details. However,
  because RFC 7230 and RFC 7231 do not force any particular implementation,
  there will be a certain amount of invention needed to describe HTTP message
  interfaces in PHP.

4. Design Decisions
-------------------

### Message design

The `MessageInterface` provides accessors for the elements common to all HTTP
messages, whether they are for requests or responses. These elements include:

- HTTP protocol version (e.g., "1.0", "1.1")
- HTTP headers
- HTTP message body

More specific interfaces are used to describe requests and responses, and more
specifically the context of each (client- vs. server-side). These divisions are
partly inspired by existing PHP usage, but also by other languages such as
Ruby, Python, Go, Node, etc.

#### Why are there header methods on messages rather than in a header bag?

Moving headers to a "header bag" breaks the
[Law of Demeter](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_of_Demeter) and exposes the
internal implementation of a message to its collaborators. In order for
something to access the headers of a message, they need to reach into the
message's header bag (`$message->getHeaders()->getHeader('Foo')`).

Moving headers from messages into an externally mutable "header bag" exposes the
internal implementation of how a message manages its headers, and has a
side-effect that messages are no longer aware of changes to their headers. This
can lead to messages entering into an invalid or inconsistent state.

#### Mutability of messages

The proposal models "context-specific" mutability. This means that a message is mutable based on its context. For example:

- Client-side requests are mutable, as they will be iterably built before being
  sent.
- Client-side responses are immutable, as they represent the result of a
  request that has been made; changing the result would lead to inconsistent
  state when multiple processes are passed the message.
- Server-side requests are immutable, as they represent the state of the
  current incoming request; changes to the message would lead to inconsistent
  state when multiple processes are passed the message.
- Server-side responses are mutable, as they are built iterably before being
  returned to the client.

Real-world usage in clients requires mutable requests. As an example, most HTTP
clients allow you to modify a request pre-flight in order to implement custom
logic (for example, signing a request, compression, encryption, etc...).
Examples include:

* Guzzle: http://guzzlephp.org/guide/plugins.html
* Buzz: https://github.com/kriswallsmith/Buzz/blob/master/lib/Buzz/Listener/BasicAuthListener.php
* Requests/PHP:  https://github.com/rmccue/Requests/blob/master/docs/hooks.md

This is not just a popular pattern in the PHP community:

* Requests: http://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/user/advanced/#event-hooks
* Typhoeus: https://github.com/typhoeus/typhoeus/blob/master/lib/typhoeus/request/before.rb
* RestClient: https://github.com/archiloque/rest-client#hook
* Java's HttpClient: http://hc.apache.org/httpcomponents-client-ga/httpclient/examples/org/apache/http/examples/client/ClientGZipContentCompression.java
* etc...

On the server-side, the application will write to the response instance in
order to populate it before sending it back to the client. This is particularly
useful when considering the fact that headers can no longer be emitted once
_any_ output has been sent; aggregating headers and content in a response
object is a useful and typically necessary abstraction.

While server-side requests are primarily immutable, we have noted one element
or property as _mutable_: "attributes". Most server-side applications utilize
processes that match the request to specific criteria -- such as path segments,
subdomains, etc. -- and then push the derived matches back into the request
itself. Since these processes need to introspect the populated request, and are
a product of the application itself, the proposal allows this property to be
mutable. Possible use cases include:

* Body parameters are often "discovered" via deserialization of the incoming
  request body, and the serialization method will need to be determined by
  introspecting incoming `Content-Type` headers.
* Cookies may be encrypted, and a process may decrypt them and re-inject them
  into the request for later collaborators to access.
* Routing and other tools are often used to "discover" request attributes (e.g.,
  decomposing the URL `/user/phil` to assign the value "phil" to the attribute
  "user"). Such logic is application-specific, but still considered part of the
  request state; it can only be injected after instantiation.

Having context-specific mutability ensures the consistency of client-side
responses and server-side requests, while simultaneously allowing for the full
spectrum of operations on their counterparts, which are the product of the
applications.

### Using streams instead of X

`MessageInterface` uses a body value that must implement `StreamableInterface`. This
design decision was made so that developers can send and receive (and/or receive
and send) HTTP messages that contain more data than can practically be stored in
memory while still allowing the convenience of interacting with message bodies
as a string. While PHP provides a stream abstraction by way of stream wrappers,
stream resources can be cumbersome to work with: stream resources can only be
cast to a string using `stream_get_contents()` or manually reading the remainder
of a string. Adding custom behavior to a stream as it is consumed or populated
requires registering a stream filter; however, stream filters can only be added
to a stream after the filter is registered with PHP (i.e., there is no stream
filter autoloading mechanism).

The use of a well- defined stream interface allows for the potential of
flexible stream decorators that can be added to a request or response
pre-flight to enable things like encryption, compression, ensuring that the
number of bytes downloaded reflects the number of bytes reported in the
`Content-Length` of a response, etc. Decorating streams is a well-established
[pattern in the Java](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/io/package-tree.html)
and [Node](http://nodejs.org/api/stream.html#stream_class_stream_transform_1)
communities that allows for very flexible streams.

The majority of the `StreamableInterface` API is based on
[Python's io module](http://docs.python.org/3.1/library/io.html), which provides
a practical and consumable API. Instead of implementing stream
capabilities using something like a `WritableStreamInterface` and
`ReadableStreamInterface`, the capabilities of a stream are provided by methods
like `isReadable()`, `isWritable()`, etc. This approach is used by Python,
[C#, C++](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.io.stream.aspx),
[Ruby](http://www.ruby-doc.org/core-2.0.0/IO.html),
[Node](http://nodejs.org/api/stream.html), and likely others.

#### Rationale for IncomingRequestInterface

The `OutgoingRequestInterface`, `IncomingResponseInterface`, and
`OutgoingResponseInterface`, have essentially 1:1 correlations with the request
and response messages described in [RFC 7230](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc7230.txt)
They provide interfaces for implementing value objects that correspond to the
specific HTTP message types they model.

For server-side applications, however, there are other considerations for
incoming requests:

- Access to server parameters (potentially derived from the request, but also
  potentially the result of server configuration, and generally represented
  via the `$_SERVER` superglobal).
- Access to the query string arguments (usually encapsulated in PHP via the
  `$_GET` superglobal).
- Access to body parameters (i.e., data deserialized from the incoming request
  body, and usually encapsulated by PHP in the `$_POST` superglobal).
- Access to uploaded files (usually encapsulated in PHP via the `$_FILES`
  superglobal).
- Access to cookie values (usually encapsulated in PHP via the `$_COOKIE`
  superglobal).
- Access to attributes derived from the request (usually against the URL path).

Uniform access to these parameters increases the viability of interoperability
between frameworks and libraries, as they can now assume that if a request
implements `IncomingRequestInterface`, they can get at these values. It also
solves problems within the PHP language itself:

- Until 5.6.0, `php://input` was read-once; as such, instantiating multiple
  request instances from multiple frameworks/libraries could lead to
  inconsistent state, as the first to access `php://input` would be the only
  one to receive the data.
- Unit testing against superglobals (e.g., `$_GET`, `$_FILES`, etc.) is
  difficult and typically brittle. Encapsulating them inside the
  `IncomingRequestInterface` implementation eases testing considerations.

The interface as defined provides no mutators other than for derived
attributes. The assumption is that values either (a) may be injected at
instantiation from superglobals, and (b) should not change over the course of
the incoming request.

#### What about "special" header values?

A number of header values contain unique representation requirements which can
pose problems both for consumption as well as generation; in particular, cookies
and the Accept header.

This proposal does not provide any special treatment of any header types. The
base `MessageInterface` provides methods for header retrieval and setting, and
all header values are, in the end, string values.

Developers are encouraged to write commodity libraries for interacting with
these header values, either for the purposes of parsing or generation. Users may
then consume these libraries when needing to interact with those values.
Examples of this practice already exist in libraries such as
[willdurand/Negotiation](https://github.com/willdurand/Negotiation) and
[aura/accept](https://github.com/pmjones/Aura.Accept). So long as the object
has functionality for casting the value to a string, these objects can be
used to populate the headers of an HTTP message.

5. People
---------

### 5.1 Editor(s)

* Matthew Weier O'Phinney

### 5.2 Sponsors

* Paul M. Jones
* Beau Simensen (coordinator)

### 5.3 Contributors

* Michael Dowling
* Phil Sturgeon
* Chris Wilkinson

Commit message:

Document reasons for header values as arrays

proposed/http-message-meta.md, after:

HTTP Message Meta Document
==========================

1. Summary
----------

The purpose of this proposal is to provide a set of common interfaces for HTTP
messages as described in [RFC 7230] and [RFC 7231].

[RFC 7230]: http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc7230.txt
[RFC 7231]: http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc7231.txt

All HTTP messages consist of the HTTP protocol version being used, headers, and
a message body. A _Request_ builds on the message to include the HTTP method
used to make the request, and the URI to which the request is made. A
_Response_ includes the HTTP status code and reason phrase.

In PHP, HTTP messages are used in two contexts:

- To send an HTTP request from a client, such as cURL, a web browser, etc., to
  be fulfilled by a server, which will return an HTTP response. In other words,
  PHP can use HTTP messages when acting as an _HTTP client_.
- To process an incoming HTTP request to a server, and return an HTTP response
  to the client making the request. PHP can use HTTP messages when used as a
  _server-side application_ to fulfill HTTP requests.

This proposal presents an API for describing HTTP messages in PHP in a way
that is as simple as possible while simultaneously producing no limits on
functionality.

2. Why Bother?
--------------

HTTP messages are used in a wide number of PHP projects -- both clients and
servers. In each case, we observe one or more of the following patterns or
situations:

1. Projects will create implementations from scratch.
2. Projects may require a specific HTTP client/server library that provides
   HTTP message implementations.
3. Projects may create adapters for common HTTP message implementations.

As examples:

1. Frameworks such as Symfony and Zend Framework each define HTTP components
   that form the basis of their MVC layers; even small, single-purpose
   libraries such as oauth2-server-php provide and require their own HTTP
   request/response implementations. Guzzle, Buzz, and other HTTP client
   implementations each create their own HTTP message implementations as well.
2. Projects such as Silex and Stack have hard dependencies on Symfony's HTTP
   kernel. Any SDK built on Guzzle has a hard requirement on Guzzle's HTTP message
   implementations.
3. Projects such as Geocoder create redundant [adapters for common
   libraries](https://github.com/geocoder-php/Geocoder/tree/6a729c6869f55ad55ae641c74ac9ce7731635e6e/src/Geocoder/HttpAdapter).

The net result is that projects are not capable of interoperability or
cross-pollination. In order to consume code targeting one framework from
another, the first order of business is building a bridge layer between the
HTTP message implementations. On the client-side, if a particular library does
not have an adapter you can utilize, you need to bridge the request/response
pairs if you wish to use an adapter from another library.

Thus, the goal of this proposal is to abstract both client- and server-side
request and response interfaces in order to promote interoperability between
projects. If projects implement these interfaces, a reasonable level of
compatibility may be assumed when adopting code from different libraries.

It should be noted that the goal of this proposal is not to obsolete the
current interfaces utilized by existing PHP libraries. This proposal is aimed
at interoperability between PHP packages for the purpose of describing HTTP
messages.

3. Scope
--------

### 3.1 Goals

* Provide the interfaces needed for describing HTTP messages.
* Keep the interfaces as minimal as possible.
* Ensure that the API does not impose arbitrary limits on HTTP messages. For
  example, some HTTP message bodies can be too large to store in memory, so we
  must account for this.
* Provide useful abstractions both for handling incoming requests for
  server-side applications and sending outgoing requests in HTTP clients.

### 3.2 Non-Goals

* This proposal does not expect all HTTP client libraries or server-side
  frameworks to change their interfaces to conform. It is strictly meant for
  interoperability.
* While everyone's perception of what is and is not an implementation detail
  varies, this proposal should not impose implementation details. However,
  because RFC 7230 and RFC 7231 do not force any particular implementation,
  there will be a certain amount of invention needed to describe HTTP message
  interfaces in PHP.

4. Design Decisions
-------------------

### Message design

The `MessageInterface` provides accessors for the elements common to all HTTP
messages, whether they are for requests or responses. These elements include:

- HTTP protocol version (e.g., "1.0", "1.1")
- HTTP headers
- HTTP message body

More specific interfaces are used to describe requests and responses, and more
specifically the context of each (client- vs. server-side). These divisions are
partly inspired by existing PHP usage, but also by other languages such as
Ruby, Python, Go, Node, etc.

#### Why are there header methods on messages rather than in a header bag?

Moving headers to a "header bag" breaks the
[Law of Demeter](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_of_Demeter) and exposes the
internal implementation of a message to its collaborators. In order for
something to access the headers of a message, they need to reach into the
message's header bag (`$message->getHeaders()->getHeader('Foo')`).

Moving headers from messages into an externally mutable "header bag" exposes the
internal implementation of how a message manages its headers, and has a
side-effect that messages are no longer aware of changes to their headers. This
can lead to messages entering into an invalid or inconsistent state.

#### Why are header values stored as arrays?

RFC7230 indicates that headers MAY have multiple values; in some cases, this is
accomplished via comma-separated values, and in others, by emitting multiple
headers of the same name. Common headers with multiple values include `Accept`,
`Cookie`, and `Set-Cookie`.

Because multiple values may be present, and in order to ensure consistency, this
proposal mandates header values as arrays when considering header return values.
The consumer may then decide how to represent/consume them (e.g., using
`array_reduce()`, or `implode()`, or emitting one at a time via `header()`).
Having a consistent return value ensures predictability when consuming headers,
preventing the need for conditional checking of the values when working with
them.

#### Mutability of messages

The proposal models "context-specific" mutability. This means that a message is mutable based on its context. For example:

- Client-side requests are mutable, as they will be iterably built before being
  sent.
- Client-side responses are immutable, as they represent the result of a
  request that has been made; changing the result would lead to inconsistent
  state when multiple processes are passed the message.
- Server-side requests are immutable, as they represent the state of the
  current incoming request; changes to the message would lead to inconsistent
  state when multiple processes are passed the message.
- Server-side responses are mutable, as they are built iterably before being
  returned to the client.

Real-world usage in clients requires mutable requests. As an example, most HTTP
clients allow you to modify a request pre-flight in order to implement custom
logic (for example, signing a request, compression, encryption, etc...).
Examples include:

* Guzzle: http://guzzlephp.org/guide/plugins.html
* Buzz: https://github.com/kriswallsmith/Buzz/blob/master/lib/Buzz/Listener/BasicAuthListener.php
* Requests/PHP:  https://github.com/rmccue/Requests/blob/master/docs/hooks.md

This is not just a popular pattern in the PHP community:

* Requests: http://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/user/advanced/#event-hooks
* Typhoeus: https://github.com/typhoeus/typhoeus/blob/master/lib/typhoeus/request/before.rb
* RestClient: https://github.com/archiloque/rest-client#hook
* Java's HttpClient: http://hc.apache.org/httpcomponents-client-ga/httpclient/examples/org/apache/http/examples/client/ClientGZipContentCompression.java
* etc...

On the server-side, the application will write to the response instance in
order to populate it before sending it back to the client. This is particularly
useful when considering the fact that headers can no longer be emitted once
_any_ output has been sent; aggregating headers and content in a response
object is a useful and typically necessary abstraction.

While server-side requests are primarily immutable, we have noted one element
or property as _mutable_: "attributes". Most server-side applications utilize
processes that match the request to specific criteria -- such as path segments,
subdomains, etc. -- and then push the derived matches back into the request
itself. Since these processes need to introspect the populated request, and are
a product of the application itself, the proposal allows this property to be
mutable. Possible use cases include:

* Body parameters are often "discovered" via deserialization of the incoming
  request body, and the serialization method will need to be determined by
  introspecting incoming `Content-Type` headers.
* Cookies may be encrypted, and a process may decrypt them and re-inject them
  into the request for later collaborators to access.
* Routing and other tools are often used to "discover" request attributes (e.g.,
  decomposing the URL `/user/phil` to assign the value "phil" to the attribute
  "user"). Such logic is application-specific, but still considered part of the
  request state; it can only be injected after instantiation.

Having context-specific mutability ensures the consistency of client-side
responses and server-side requests, while simultaneously allowing for the full
spectrum of operations on their counterparts, which are the product of the
applications.

### Using streams instead of X

`MessageInterface` uses a body value that must implement `StreamableInterface`. This
design decision was made so that developers can send and receive (and/or receive
and send) HTTP messages that contain more data than can practically be stored in
memory while still allowing the convenience of interacting with message bodies
as a string. While PHP provides a stream abstraction by way of stream wrappers,
stream resources can be cumbersome to work with: stream resources can only be
cast to a string using `stream_get_contents()` or manually reading the remainder
of a string. Adding custom behavior to a stream as it is consumed or populated
requires registering a stream filter; however, stream filters can only be added
to a stream after the filter is registered with PHP (i.e., there is no stream
filter autoloading mechanism).

The use of a well- defined stream interface allows for the potential of
flexible stream decorators that can be added to a request or response
pre-flight to enable things like encryption, compression, ensuring that the
number of bytes downloaded reflects the number of bytes reported in the
`Content-Length` of a response, etc. Decorating streams is a well-established
[pattern in the Java](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/io/package-tree.html)
and [Node](http://nodejs.org/api/stream.html#stream_class_stream_transform_1)
communities that allows for very flexible streams.

The majority of the `StreamableInterface` API is based on
[Python's io module](http://docs.python.org/3.1/library/io.html), which provides
a practical and consumable API. Instead of implementing stream
capabilities using something like a `WritableStreamInterface` and
`ReadableStreamInterface`, the capabilities of a stream are provided by methods
like `isReadable()`, `isWritable()`, etc. This approach is used by Python,
[C#, C++](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.io.stream.aspx),
[Ruby](http://www.ruby-doc.org/core-2.0.0/IO.html),
[Node](http://nodejs.org/api/stream.html), and likely others.

#### Rationale for IncomingRequestInterface

The `OutgoingRequestInterface`, `IncomingResponseInterface`, and
`OutgoingResponseInterface`, have essentially 1:1 correlations with the request
and response messages described in [RFC 7230](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc7230.txt)
They provide interfaces for implementing value objects that correspond to the
specific HTTP message types they model.

For server-side applications, however, there are other considerations for
incoming requests:

- Access to server parameters (potentially derived from the request, but also
  potentially the result of server configuration, and generally represented
  via the `$_SERVER` superglobal).
- Access to the query string arguments (usually encapsulated in PHP via the
  `$_GET` superglobal).
- Access to body parameters (i.e., data deserialized from the incoming request
  body, and usually encapsulated by PHP in the `$_POST` superglobal).
- Access to uploaded files (usually encapsulated in PHP via the `$_FILES`
  superglobal).
- Access to cookie values (usually encapsulated in PHP via the `$_COOKIE`
  superglobal).
- Access to attributes derived from the request (usually against the URL path).

Uniform access to these parameters increases the viability of interoperability
between frameworks and libraries, as they can now assume that if a request
implements `IncomingRequestInterface`, they can get at these values. It also
solves problems within the PHP language itself:

- Until 5.6.0, `php://input` was read-once; as such, instantiating multiple
  request instances from multiple frameworks/libraries could lead to
  inconsistent state, as the first to access `php://input` would be the only
  one to receive the data.
- Unit testing against superglobals (e.g., `$_GET`, `$_FILES`, etc.) is
  difficult and typically brittle. Encapsulating them inside the
  `IncomingRequestInterface` implementation eases testing considerations.

The interface as defined provides no mutators other than for derived
attributes. The assumption is that values either (a) may be injected at
instantiation from superglobals, and (b) should not change over the course of
the incoming request.

#### What about "special" header values?

A number of header values contain unique representation requirements which can
pose problems both for consumption as well as generation; in particular, cookies
and the Accept header.

This proposal does not provide any special treatment of any header types. The
base `MessageInterface` provides methods for header retrieval and setting, and
all header values are, in the end, string values.

Developers are encouraged to write commodity libraries for interacting with
these header values, either for the purposes of parsing or generation. Users may
then consume these libraries when needing to interact with those values.
Examples of this practice already exist in libraries such as
[willdurand/Negotiation](https://github.com/willdurand/Negotiation) and
[aura/accept](https://github.com/pmjones/Aura.Accept). So long as the object
has functionality for casting the value to a string, these objects can be
used to populate the headers of an HTTP message.

5. People
---------

### 5.1 Editor(s)

* Matthew Weier O'Phinney

### 5.2 Sponsors

* Paul M. Jones
* Beau Simensen (coordinator)

### 5.3 Contributors

* Michael Dowling
* Phil Sturgeon
* Chris Wilkinson
