proposed/phpdoc.md, before:

PSR-5: PHPDoc
=============

## Table Of Contents

- [1. Introduction](#1-introduction)
- [2. Conventions Used In This Document](#2-conventions-used-in-this-document)
- [3. Definitions](#3-definitions)
- [4. Basic Principles](#4-basic-principles)
- [5. The PHPDoc Format](#5-the-phpdoc-format)
  - [5.1. Summary](#51-summary)
  - [5.2. Description](#52-description)
    - [5.2.1 Inline tags](#521-inline-tags)
  - [5.3. Tags](#53-tags)
    - [5.3.1. Tag Name](#531-tag-name)
  - [5.4. Examples](#54-examples)
- [Appendix A. Types](#appendix-a-types)
  - [ABNF](#abnf)
  - [Details](#details)
  - [Valid Class Name](#valid-class-name)
  - [Keyword](#keyword)

## 1. Introduction

The purpose of the PSR is to provide a formal definition of the PHPDoc standard.

## 2. Conventions Used In This Document

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in [RFC 2119][RFC2119].

## 3. Definitions

* "PHPDoc" is a section of documentation which provides information on aspects
  of a "Structural Element".

  > It is important to note that a PHPDoc and a DocBlock are two separate
  > entities. The DocBlock is the combination of a DocComment, which is a type
  > of comment, and a PHPDoc entity. It is the PHPDoc entity that contains the
  > syntax as described in this specification (such as the Description and tags).

* "Structural Element" is a collection of programming constructs which MAY be
  preceded by a DocBlock. The collection contains the following constructs:

  * `require` / `include` (and their `\_once` variants)
  * `class` / `interface` / `trait`
  * `function` (both standalone functions and class methods)
  * variables (local and global scope) and class properties
  * constants (global constants via `define` and class constants)

  It is RECOMMENDED to precede a "Structural Element" with a DocBlock where it
  is defined. It is common practice to have the DocBlock precede a Structural
  Element but it MAY also be separated by any number of empty lines.

  Examples:

  ```php
  /**
   * This is a counter.
   * @var int $int
   */
  $int = 0;

  /** @var int $int This is a counter. */
  $int = 0;

  /* comment block... this is not a docblock */
  $int++;

  // single line comment... this is not a docblock
  $int++;
  ```

  ```php
  /**
   * This class shows an example on where to position a DocBlock.
   */
  class Foo
  {
      /** @var ?string $title contains a title for the Foo */
      protected $title = null;

      /**
       * Sets a single-line title.
       *
       * @param string $title A text for the title.
       *
       * @return void
       */
      public function setTitle($title)
      {
          // there should be no docblock here
          $this->title = $title;
      }
  }
  ```

  It is NOT RECOMMENDED to use compound definitions for constants or properties,
  since the handling of DocBlocks in these situations can lead to unexpected
  results. If a compound statement is used, each element SHOULD have a preceding
  DocBlock.

  Example:

  ```php
    class Foo
    {
      protected
        /**
         * @var string Should contain a name
         */
        $name,
        /**
         * @var string Should contain a description
         */
        $description;
    }
  ```

* "DocComment" is a special type of comment which MUST

  - start with the character sequence `/**` followed by a whitespace character
  - end with `*/` and
  - have zero or more lines in between.

  When a DocComment spans multiple lines, every line MUST start with an asterisk
  (`*`) that SHOULD be aligned with the first asterisk of the opening clause.

  Single line example:

  ```php
  /** <...> */
  ```

  Multiline example:

  ```php
    /**
     * <...>
     */
  ```

* "DocBlock" is a "DocComment" containing a single "PHPDoc" structure and
  represents the basic in-source representation.

* "Tag" is a single piece of meta information regarding a "Structural Element".

* "Type" is the determination of what type of data is associated with an element.
  This is used to determine the exact data type (primitive, class, object) of
  arguments, properties, constants, etc.

  See Appendix A for more detailed information about types.

* "FQSEN" is an abbreviation for Fully Qualified Structural Element Name. This
  notation expands on the Fully Qualified Class Name and adds a notation to
  identify class / interface / trait members and re-apply the principles of the
  FQCN to Interfaces, Traits, Functions and global Constants.

  The following notations can be used per type of "Structural Element":

  - *Namespace*:      `\My\Space`
  - *Function*:       `\My\Space\myFunction()`
  - *Constant*:       `\My\Space\MY_CONSTANT`
  - *Class*:          `\My\Space\MyClass`
  - *Interface*:      `\My\Space\MyInterface`
  - *Trait*:          `\My\Space\MyTrait`
  - *Method*:         `\My\Space\MyClass::myMethod()`
  - *Property*:       `\My\Space\MyClass::$my_property`
  - *Class Constant*: `\My\Space\MyClass::MY_CONSTANT`

  A FQSEN has the following [ABNF][RFC5234] definition:

      FQSEN    = fqnn / fqcn / constant / method / property  / function
      fqnn     = "\" [name] *("\" [name])
      fqcn     = fqnn "\" name
      constant = ((fqnn "\") / (fqcn "::")) name
      method   = fqcn "::" name "()"
      property = fqcn "::$" name
      function = fqnn "\" name "()"
      name     = (ALPHA / "_") *(ALPHA / DIGIT / "_")

## 4. Basic Principles

* A PHPDoc MUST always be contained in a "DocComment"; the combination of these
  two is called a "DocBlock".

* A DocBlock MUST directly precede a "Structural Element".

## 5. The PHPDoc Format

The PHPDoc format has the following [ABNF][RFC5234] definition:

    PHPDoc             = [summary [description]] [tags]
    eol                = [CR] LF ; to compatible with PSR-12
    summary            = 1*CHAR 2*eol
    description        = 1*(CHAR / inline-tag) 1*eol ; any amount of characters
                                                     ; with inline tags inside
    tags               = *(tag 1*eol)
    inline-tag         = "{" tag "}"
    tag                = "@" tag-name [":" tag-specialization] [tag-details]
    tag-name           = (ALPHA / "\") *(ALPHA / DIGIT / "\" / "-" / "_")
    tag-specialization = 1*(ALPHA / DIGIT / "-")
    tag-details        = (1*SP tag-description)
    tag-description    = (CHAR / inline-tag) *(CHAR / inline-tag / eol)
    tag-argument       = *SP 1*CHAR [","] *SP

Examples of use are included in chapter 5.4.

### 5.1. Summary

A Summary MUST contain an abstract of the "Structural Element" defining the
purpose. It is RECOMMENDED for Summaries to span a single line or two, but not
more than that.

A Summary MUST end with two sequential line breaks, unless it is the only
content in the PHPDoc.

If a Description is provided, then it MUST be preceded by a Summary. Otherwise
the Description risks being mistaken as the Summary.

Because a Summary is comparable to a chapter title, it is RECOMMENDED to use as
little formatting as possible. Contrary to the Description, no recommendation is
made to support a mark-up language.

### 5.2. Description

The Description is OPTIONAL but SHOULD be included when the "Structural Element"
contains more complexity than can be described by the Summary alone.

Any application parsing the Description is RECOMMENDED to support the
Markdown mark-up language, to make it possible for the author to provide
formatting and a clear way of representing code examples.

Common uses for the Description:
* To provide more detail on what this method does than the Summary can do
* To specify of what child elements an array / object is composed
* To provide a set of common use cases or scenarios in which the "Structural
  Element" may be applied

#### 5.2.1 Inline tags

A description MAY contain inline tags. Inline tags MUST follow the specification of
tags with the same syntax. An inline tag MUST start with `{@` and MUST with `}`

```php
  /** 
   * Summary.
   * 
   * This is a description with an inline tag {@tag rest of the tag format}
   */
```

Inline tags are only covering regular tags and SHALL NOT cover _Annotation_ tags.

As inline tags are always closed with a `}` developers cannot use this char in a 
description. To overcome this issue parsers MUST support escape char `{` followed
by `}` to be interpreted as a single `}` 

```php
   /**
    * Summary.
    *
    * This is a description with an inline tag {@tag show case {} escape of ending char}
    */
```

### 5.3. Tags

Tags supply concise metadata for a "Structural Element". Each tag starts on a
new line, followed by an at-sign (`@`) and a tag-name, followed by whitespace and
metadata (including a description).

If metadata is provided, it MAY span multiple lines and COULD follow a strict
format, as dictated by the specific tag.

> `@param string $argument1 This is a parameter.`
>
> The above tag consists of a _name_ (`param`) and metadata
> ('string $argument1 This is a parameter.'), where the metadata is split into a
> _type_ (`string`), variable name (`$argument1`),  and description (`This is a
> parameter.`).

The description MUST support Markdown as a formatting language. The
description of the tag MAY start on the same line or next line. The following
tags are semantically identical:

```php
    /**
     * @var string This is a description.
     * @var string This is a
     *    description.
     * @var string
     *    This is a description.
     */
```

This definition does NOT apply to _Annotation_ tags, which are not in scope.

#### 5.3.1. Tag Name

Tag names indicate what type of information is represented by this tag.

### 5.4. Examples

The following examples serve to illustrate the basic use of DocBlocks; it is
advised to read through the list of tags in the [Tag Catalog PSR][TAG_PSR].

A complete example could look like this:

```php
/**
 * This is a Summary.
 *
 * This is a Description. It may span multiple lines
 * or contain `code` examples using the _Markdown_ markup
 * language.
 *
 * @see Markdown
 *
 * @param int        $parameter1 A parameter description.
 * @param \Exception $e          Another parameter description.
 *
 * @\Doctrine\Orm\Mapper\Entity()
 *
 * @return string
 */
function test($parameter1, $e)
{
    ...
}
```

The Description MAY be omitted:

```php
/**
 * This is a Summary.
 *
 * @see Markdown
 *
 * @param int        $parameter1 A parameter description.
 * @param \Exception $parameter2 Another parameter description.
 *
 * @\Doctrine\Orm\Mapper\Entity()
 *
 * @return string
 */
function test($parameter1, $parameter2)
{
}
```

Tags MAY also be omitted:

```php
/**
 * This is a Summary.
 */
function test($parameter1, $parameter2)
{
}
```

A DocBlock may also span a single line:

```php
/** @var \ArrayObject $array An array of things. */
public $array = null;
```

## Appendix A. Types

### ABNF

A Type has the following [ABNF][RFC5234] definition:

    type-expression  = type *("|" type) *("&" type)
    type             = class-name / keyword / array
    array            = (type / array-expression) "[]"
    array-expression = "(" type-expression ")"
    class-name       = ["\"] label *("\" label)
    label            = (ALPHA / %x7F-FF) *(ALPHA / DIGIT / %x7F-FF)
    keyword          = "array" / "bool" / "callable" / "false" / "float" / "int" / "iterable" / "mixed" / "never"
    keyword          =/ "null" / "object" / "resource" / "self" / "static" / "string" / "true" / "void" / "$this"

### Details

When a "Type" is used, the user will expect a value, or set of values, as detailed below.

When the "Type" consists of multiple types, then these MUST be separated with
either the vertical bar (|) for union type or the ampersand (&) for intersection
type.  Any interpreter supporting this specification MUST recognize this and
split the "Type" before evaluating.

Union type example:
>`@return int|null`

Intersection type example:
>`@var \MyClass&\PHPUnit\Framework\MockObject\MockObject $myMockObject`

#### Arrays

The value represented by "Type" can be an array. The type MUST be defined
following one of the following options:

1. unspecified: no definition of the contents of the array is given.
   Example: `@return array`

2. specified as a specific type: each member of the array is the same one type.
   Example: `@return int[]`

   Note that `mixed` is also a single type and thus can explicitly indicate that
   each member is any possible type.

3. specified as containing multiple explicit types:  each member can be of any
   of the given types.
   Example: `@return (int|string)[]`

### Valid Class Name

A valid class name is based on the context where this type is mentioned. This
may be a Fully Qualified Class Name (FQCN) or a local name if present in a
namespace.

The element to which this type applies is either an instance of this class
or an instance of a class that is a sub/child to the given class.

> It is RECOMMENDED for applications that collect and shape this information to
> show a list of child classes with each representation of the class. This makes
> it more obvious for the user which classes are acceptable as this type.

### Keyword

A keyword defines the purpose of this type. Not every element is determined by a
class, but it is still worthy of classification to assist the developer in
understanding the code covered by the DocBlock.

> Some of these keywords are allowed as class names in PHP and can be difficult
> to distinguish from real classes. As such, the keywords MUST be lowercase, as
> most class names start with an uppercase first character... it is RECOMMENDED
> that you not use classes with these names in your code.

The following keywords are recognized by this PSR:

1.  `bool`: the element to which this type applies only has state `TRUE` or `FALSE`.

2.  `int`: the element to which this type applies is a whole number or integer.

3.  `float`: the element to which this type applies is a continuous, or real, number.

4.  `string`: the element to which this type applies is a string of binary characters.

5.  `object`: the element to which this type applies is the instance of an undetermined class.

6.  `array`: the element to which this type applies is an array of values.

7.  `iterable`: the element to which this type applies is an array or Traversable object per the [definition of PHP][PHP_ITERABLE].

8.  `resource`: the element to which this type applies is a resource per the [definition of PHP][PHP_RESOURCE].

9.  `mixed`: the element to which this type applies can be of any type as specified here. It is not known at compile
    time which type will be used.

10. `void`: this type is commonly only used when defining the return type of a method or function, indicating
    "nothing is returned", and thus the user should not rely on any returned value.

    ```php
    /**
     * @return void
     */
    function outputHello()
    {
        echo 'Hello world';
    }
    ```

11. `null`: the element to which this type applies is a `NULL` value or, in technical terms, does not exist.

    Compared to `void`, this type is used in any situation where the described element may at
    any given time contain an explicit `NULL` value.

    ```php
    /**
     * @return null
     */
    function foo()
    {
        echo 'Hello world';
        return null;
    }
    ```

    ```php
    /**
     * @param bool $create_new When true returns a new stdClass.
     *
     * @return stdClass|null
     */
    function foo($create_new)
    {
        if ($create_new) {
            return new stdClass();
        }
        return null;
    }
    ```

12. `callable`: the element to which this type applies is a pointer to a function call. This may be any type of callable
    as per the [definition of PHP][PHP_CALLABLE].

13. `false` or `true`: the element to which this type applies will have the exact value `TRUE` or `FALSE`. No other value will
    be returned from this element.

14. `self`: the element to which this type applies is of the same class in which the documented element is originally
    contained.

    **Example:**

    > Method *c* is contained in class *A*. The DocBlock states that its return value is of type `self`. As such, method
    > *c* returns an instance of class *A*.

    This may lead to confusing situations when inheritance is involved.

    **Example (previous example situation still applies):**

    > Class *B* extends class *A* and does not redefine method *c*. As such, it is possible to invoke method *c* from
    > class *B*.

    In this situation, ambiguity may arise as `self` could be interpreted as either class *A* or *B*. In these cases,
    `self` MUST be interpreted as being an instance of the class where the DocBlock containing the `self` type is
    written.

    In the examples above, `self` MUST always refer to class *A*, since it is defined with method *c* in class *A*.

    > Due to the above nature, it is RECOMMENDED for applications that collect and shape this information to show a list
    > of child classes with each representation of the class. This would make it obvious for the user which classes are
    > acceptable as type.

15. `static`: the element to which this type applies is of the same class in which the documented element is contained,
    or, when encountered in a subclass, is of type of that subclass instead of the original class.

    This keyword behaves the same way as the [keyword for late static binding][PHP_OOP5LSB] (not the static method,
    property, nor variable modifier) as defined by PHP.

16. `$this`: the element to which this type applies is the same exact instance as the current class in the given
    context. As such, this type is a stricter version of `static`, because the returned instance must not only be
    of the same class but also the same instance.

    This type is often used as return value for methods implementing the [Fluent Interface][FLUENT] design pattern.

17. `never`: denotes that element isn't going to return anything and always throws exception or terminates
    the program abnormally (such as by calling the library function `exit`).

[RFC2119]:      https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119
[RFC5234]:      https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5234
[PHP_RESOURCE]: https://php.net/manual/language.types.resource.php
[PHP_ITERABLE]: https://php.net/manual/language.types.iterable.php
[PHP_PSEUDO]:   https://php.net/manual/language.pseudo-types.php
[PHP_CALLABLE]: https://php.net/manual/language.types.callable.php
[PHP_OOP5LSB]:  https://php.net/manual/language.oop5.late-static-bindings.php
[DEFACTO]:      http://www.phpdoc.org/docs/latest/index.html
[PHPDOC.ORG]:   http://www.phpdoc.org/
[FLUENT]:       https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fluent_interface
[TAG_PSR]:      TBD

Commit message:

Added tags specialization
since the introduction of static analysis tools in php we see that
those tools (phpstan, psalm) both support prefixed tags in their
parsing. By explicit mention the already supported syntax for those
tags, we make sure to include those tool specs in the standard.

proposed/phpdoc.md, after:

PSR-5: PHPDoc
=============

## Table Of Contents

- [1. Introduction](#1-introduction)
- [2. Conventions Used In This Document](#2-conventions-used-in-this-document)
- [3. Definitions](#3-definitions)
- [4. Basic Principles](#4-basic-principles)
- [5. The PHPDoc Format](#5-the-phpdoc-format)
  - [5.1. Summary](#51-summary)
  - [5.2. Description](#52-description)
    - [5.2.1 Inline tags](#521-inline-tags)
  - [5.3. Tags](#53-tags)
    - [5.3.1. Tag Specialization](#531-tag-specialization) 
    - [5.3.2. Tag Name](#532-tag-name)
  - [5.4. Examples](#54-examples)
- [Appendix A. Types](#appendix-a-types)
  - [ABNF](#abnf)
  - [Details](#details)
  - [Valid Class Name](#valid-class-name)
  - [Keyword](#keyword)

## 1. Introduction

The purpose of the PSR is to provide a formal definition of the PHPDoc standard.

## 2. Conventions Used In This Document

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in [RFC 2119][RFC2119].

## 3. Definitions

* "PHPDoc" is a section of documentation which provides information on aspects
  of a "Structural Element".

  > It is important to note that a PHPDoc and a DocBlock are two separate
  > entities. The DocBlock is the combination of a DocComment, which is a type
  > of comment, and a PHPDoc entity. It is the PHPDoc entity that contains the
  > syntax as described in this specification (such as the Description and tags).

* "Structural Element" is a collection of programming constructs which MAY be
  preceded by a DocBlock. The collection contains the following constructs:

  * `require` / `include` (and their `\_once` variants)
  * `class` / `interface` / `trait`
  * `function` (both standalone functions and class methods)
  * variables (local and global scope) and class properties
  * constants (global constants via `define` and class constants)

  It is RECOMMENDED to precede a "Structural Element" with a DocBlock where it
  is defined. It is common practice to have the DocBlock precede a Structural
  Element but it MAY also be separated by any number of empty lines.

  Examples:

  ```php
  /**
   * This is a counter.
   * @var int $int
   */
  $int = 0;

  /** @var int $int This is a counter. */
  $int = 0;

  /* comment block... this is not a docblock */
  $int++;

  // single line comment... this is not a docblock
  $int++;
  ```

  ```php
  /**
   * This class shows an example on where to position a DocBlock.
   */
  class Foo
  {
      /** @var ?string $title contains a title for the Foo */
      protected $title = null;

      /**
       * Sets a single-line title.
       *
       * @param string $title A text for the title.
       *
       * @return void
       */
      public function setTitle($title)
      {
          // there should be no docblock here
          $this->title = $title;
      }
  }
  ```

  It is NOT RECOMMENDED to use compound definitions for constants or properties,
  since the handling of DocBlocks in these situations can lead to unexpected
  results. If a compound statement is used, each element SHOULD have a preceding
  DocBlock.

  Example:

  ```php
    class Foo
    {
      protected
        /**
         * @var string Should contain a name
         */
        $name,
        /**
         * @var string Should contain a description
         */
        $description;
    }
  ```

* "DocComment" is a special type of comment which MUST

  - start with the character sequence `/**` followed by a whitespace character
  - end with `*/` and
  - have zero or more lines in between.

  When a DocComment spans multiple lines, every line MUST start with an asterisk
  (`*`) that SHOULD be aligned with the first asterisk of the opening clause.

  Single line example:

  ```php
  /** <...> */
  ```

  Multiline example:

  ```php
    /**
     * <...>
     */
  ```

* "DocBlock" is a "DocComment" containing a single "PHPDoc" structure and
  represents the basic in-source representation.

* "Tag" is a single piece of meta information regarding a "Structural Element".

* "Type" is the determination of what type of data is associated with an element.
  This is used to determine the exact data type (primitive, class, object) of
  arguments, properties, constants, etc.

  See Appendix A for more detailed information about types.

* "FQSEN" is an abbreviation for Fully Qualified Structural Element Name. This
  notation expands on the Fully Qualified Class Name and adds a notation to
  identify class / interface / trait members and re-apply the principles of the
  FQCN to Interfaces, Traits, Functions and global Constants.

  The following notations can be used per type of "Structural Element":

  - *Namespace*:      `\My\Space`
  - *Function*:       `\My\Space\myFunction()`
  - *Constant*:       `\My\Space\MY_CONSTANT`
  - *Class*:          `\My\Space\MyClass`
  - *Interface*:      `\My\Space\MyInterface`
  - *Trait*:          `\My\Space\MyTrait`
  - *Method*:         `\My\Space\MyClass::myMethod()`
  - *Property*:       `\My\Space\MyClass::$my_property`
  - *Class Constant*: `\My\Space\MyClass::MY_CONSTANT`

  A FQSEN has the following [ABNF][RFC5234] definition:

      FQSEN    = fqnn / fqcn / constant / method / property  / function
      fqnn     = "\" [name] *("\" [name])
      fqcn     = fqnn "\" name
      constant = ((fqnn "\") / (fqcn "::")) name
      method   = fqcn "::" name "()"
      property = fqcn "::$" name
      function = fqnn "\" name "()"
      name     = (ALPHA / "_") *(ALPHA / DIGIT / "_")

## 4. Basic Principles

* A PHPDoc MUST always be contained in a "DocComment"; the combination of these
  two is called a "DocBlock".

* A DocBlock MUST directly precede a "Structural Element".

## 5. The PHPDoc Format

The PHPDoc format has the following [ABNF][RFC5234] definition:

    PHPDoc             = [summary [description]] [tags]
    eol                = [CR] LF ; to compatible with PSR-12
    summary            = 1*CHAR 2*eol
    description        = 1*(CHAR / inline-tag) 1*eol ; any amount of characters
                                                     ; with inline tags inside
    tags               = *(tag 1*eol)
    inline-tag         = "{" tag "}"
    tag                = "@"[tag-specialization "-"] tag-name [tag-details]
    tag-name           = (ALPHA / "\") *(ALPHA / DIGIT / "\" / "-" / "_")
    tag-specialization = 1*(ALPHA / DIGIT)
    tag-details        = (1*SP tag-description)
    tag-description    = (CHAR / inline-tag) *(CHAR / inline-tag / eol)
    tag-argument       = *SP 1*CHAR [","] *SP

Examples of use are included in chapter 5.4.

### 5.1. Summary

A Summary MUST contain an abstract of the "Structural Element" defining the
purpose. It is RECOMMENDED for Summaries to span a single line or two, but not
more than that.

A Summary MUST end with two sequential line breaks, unless it is the only
content in the PHPDoc.

If a Description is provided, then it MUST be preceded by a Summary. Otherwise
the Description risks being mistaken as the Summary.

Because a Summary is comparable to a chapter title, it is RECOMMENDED to use as
little formatting as possible. Contrary to the Description, no recommendation is
made to support a mark-up language.

### 5.2. Description

The Description is OPTIONAL but SHOULD be included when the "Structural Element"
contains more complexity than can be described by the Summary alone.

Any application parsing the Description is RECOMMENDED to support the
Markdown mark-up language, to make it possible for the author to provide
formatting and a clear way of representing code examples.

Common uses for the Description:
* To provide more detail on what this method does than the Summary can do
* To specify of what child elements an array / object is composed
* To provide a set of common use cases or scenarios in which the "Structural
  Element" may be applied

#### 5.2.1 Inline tags

A description MAY contain inline tags. Inline tags MUST follow the specification of
tags with the same syntax. An inline tag MUST start with `{@` and MUST with `}`

```php
  /** 
   * Summary.
   * 
   * This is a description with an inline tag {@tag rest of the tag format}
   */
```

Inline tags are only covering regular tags and SHALL NOT cover _Annotation_ tags.

As inline tags are always closed with a `}` developers cannot use this char in a 
description. To overcome this issue parsers MUST support escape char `{` followed
by `}` to be interpreted as a single `}` 

```php
   /**
    * Summary.
    *
    * This is a description with an inline tag {@tag show case {} escape of ending char}
    */
```

### 5.3. Tags

Tags supply concise metadata for a "Structural Element". Each tag starts on a
new line, followed by an at-sign (`@`) and a tag-name, followed by whitespace and
metadata (including a description).

If metadata is provided, it MAY span multiple lines and COULD follow a strict
format, as dictated by the specific tag.

> `@param string $argument1 This is a parameter.`
>
> The above tag consists of a _name_ (`param`) and metadata
> ('string $argument1 This is a parameter.'), where the metadata is split into a
> _type_ (`string`), variable name (`$argument1`),  and description (`This is a
> parameter.`).

The description MUST support Markdown as a formatting language. The
description of the tag MAY start on the same line or next line. The following
tags are semantically identical:

```php
    /**
     * @var string This is a description.
     * @var string This is a
     *    description.
     * @var string
     *    This is a description.
     */
```

This definition does NOT apply to _Annotation_ tags, which are not in scope.

#### 5.3.1 Tag Specialization

Tag specialization give a scope to the tag. It is RECOMMENDED to follow the
list of tags in the tag [Tag Catalog PSR][TAG_PSR]. But the metadata of specialized
tags MAY differ from the list.

```php
  /**
   * @vendor-tag This is a description
   */
```

Parsers MAY ignore specialized tags when they are in a supported format.

#### 5.3.2. Tag Name

Tag names indicate what type of information is represented by this tag.

### 5.4. Examples

The following examples serve to illustrate the basic use of DocBlocks; it is
advised to read through the list of tags in the [Tag Catalog PSR][TAG_PSR].

A complete example could look like this:

```php
/**
 * This is a Summary.
 *
 * This is a Description. It may span multiple lines
 * or contain `code` examples using the _Markdown_ markup
 * language.
 *
 * @see Markdown
 *
 * @param int        $parameter1 A parameter description.
 * @param \Exception $e          Another parameter description.
 *
 * @\Doctrine\Orm\Mapper\Entity()
 *
 * @return string
 */
function test($parameter1, $e)
{
    ...
}
```

The Description MAY be omitted:

```php
/**
 * This is a Summary.
 *
 * @see Markdown
 *
 * @param int        $parameter1 A parameter description.
 * @param \Exception $parameter2 Another parameter description.
 *
 * @\Doctrine\Orm\Mapper\Entity()
 *
 * @return string
 */
function test($parameter1, $parameter2)
{
}
```

Tags MAY also be omitted:

```php
/**
 * This is a Summary.
 */
function test($parameter1, $parameter2)
{
}
```

A DocBlock may also span a single line:

```php
/** @var \ArrayObject $array An array of things. */
public $array = null;
```

## Appendix A. Types

### ABNF

A Type has the following [ABNF][RFC5234] definition:

    type-expression  = type *("|" type) *("&" type)
    type             = class-name / keyword / array
    array            = (type / array-expression) "[]"
    array-expression = "(" type-expression ")"
    class-name       = ["\"] label *("\" label)
    label            = (ALPHA / %x7F-FF) *(ALPHA / DIGIT / %x7F-FF)
    keyword          = "array" / "bool" / "callable" / "false" / "float" / "int" / "iterable" / "mixed" / "never"
    keyword          =/ "null" / "object" / "resource" / "self" / "static" / "string" / "true" / "void" / "$this"

### Details

When a "Type" is used, the user will expect a value, or set of values, as detailed below.

When the "Type" consists of multiple types, then these MUST be separated with
either the vertical bar (|) for union type or the ampersand (&) for intersection
type.  Any interpreter supporting this specification MUST recognize this and
split the "Type" before evaluating.

Union type example:
>`@return int|null`

Intersection type example:
>`@var \MyClass&\PHPUnit\Framework\MockObject\MockObject $myMockObject`

#### Arrays

The value represented by "Type" can be an array. The type MUST be defined
following one of the following options:

1. unspecified: no definition of the contents of the array is given.
   Example: `@return array`

2. specified as a specific type: each member of the array is the same one type.
   Example: `@return int[]`

   Note that `mixed` is also a single type and thus can explicitly indicate that
   each member is any possible type.

3. specified as containing multiple explicit types:  each member can be of any
   of the given types.
   Example: `@return (int|string)[]`

### Valid Class Name

A valid class name is based on the context where this type is mentioned. This
may be a Fully Qualified Class Name (FQCN) or a local name if present in a
namespace.

The element to which this type applies is either an instance of this class
or an instance of a class that is a sub/child to the given class.

> It is RECOMMENDED for applications that collect and shape this information to
> show a list of child classes with each representation of the class. This makes
> it more obvious for the user which classes are acceptable as this type.

### Keyword

A keyword defines the purpose of this type. Not every element is determined by a
class, but it is still worthy of classification to assist the developer in
understanding the code covered by the DocBlock.

> Some of these keywords are allowed as class names in PHP and can be difficult
> to distinguish from real classes. As such, the keywords MUST be lowercase, as
> most class names start with an uppercase first character... it is RECOMMENDED
> that you not use classes with these names in your code.

The following keywords are recognized by this PSR:

1.  `bool`: the element to which this type applies only has state `TRUE` or `FALSE`.

2.  `int`: the element to which this type applies is a whole number or integer.

3.  `float`: the element to which this type applies is a continuous, or real, number.

4.  `string`: the element to which this type applies is a string of binary characters.

5.  `object`: the element to which this type applies is the instance of an undetermined class.

6.  `array`: the element to which this type applies is an array of values.

7.  `iterable`: the element to which this type applies is an array or Traversable object per the [definition of PHP][PHP_ITERABLE].

8.  `resource`: the element to which this type applies is a resource per the [definition of PHP][PHP_RESOURCE].

9.  `mixed`: the element to which this type applies can be of any type as specified here. It is not known at compile
    time which type will be used.

10. `void`: this type is commonly only used when defining the return type of a method or function, indicating
    "nothing is returned", and thus the user should not rely on any returned value.

    ```php
    /**
     * @return void
     */
    function outputHello()
    {
        echo 'Hello world';
    }
    ```

11. `null`: the element to which this type applies is a `NULL` value or, in technical terms, does not exist.

    Compared to `void`, this type is used in any situation where the described element may at
    any given time contain an explicit `NULL` value.

    ```php
    /**
     * @return null
     */
    function foo()
    {
        echo 'Hello world';
        return null;
    }
    ```

    ```php
    /**
     * @param bool $create_new When true returns a new stdClass.
     *
     * @return stdClass|null
     */
    function foo($create_new)
    {
        if ($create_new) {
            return new stdClass();
        }
        return null;
    }
    ```

12. `callable`: the element to which this type applies is a pointer to a function call. This may be any type of callable
    as per the [definition of PHP][PHP_CALLABLE].

13. `false` or `true`: the element to which this type applies will have the exact value `TRUE` or `FALSE`. No other value will
    be returned from this element.

14. `self`: the element to which this type applies is of the same class in which the documented element is originally
    contained.

    **Example:**

    > Method *c* is contained in class *A*. The DocBlock states that its return value is of type `self`. As such, method
    > *c* returns an instance of class *A*.

    This may lead to confusing situations when inheritance is involved.

    **Example (previous example situation still applies):**

    > Class *B* extends class *A* and does not redefine method *c*. As such, it is possible to invoke method *c* from
    > class *B*.

    In this situation, ambiguity may arise as `self` could be interpreted as either class *A* or *B*. In these cases,
    `self` MUST be interpreted as being an instance of the class where the DocBlock containing the `self` type is
    written.

    In the examples above, `self` MUST always refer to class *A*, since it is defined with method *c* in class *A*.

    > Due to the above nature, it is RECOMMENDED for applications that collect and shape this information to show a list
    > of child classes with each representation of the class. This would make it obvious for the user which classes are
    > acceptable as type.

15. `static`: the element to which this type applies is of the same class in which the documented element is contained,
    or, when encountered in a subclass, is of type of that subclass instead of the original class.

    This keyword behaves the same way as the [keyword for late static binding][PHP_OOP5LSB] (not the static method,
    property, nor variable modifier) as defined by PHP.

16. `$this`: the element to which this type applies is the same exact instance as the current class in the given
    context. As such, this type is a stricter version of `static`, because the returned instance must not only be
    of the same class but also the same instance.

    This type is often used as return value for methods implementing the [Fluent Interface][FLUENT] design pattern.

17. `never`: denotes that element isn't going to return anything and always throws exception or terminates
    the program abnormally (such as by calling the library function `exit`).

[RFC2119]:      https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119
[RFC5234]:      https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5234
[PHP_RESOURCE]: https://php.net/manual/language.types.resource.php
[PHP_ITERABLE]: https://php.net/manual/language.types.iterable.php
[PHP_PSEUDO]:   https://php.net/manual/language.pseudo-types.php
[PHP_CALLABLE]: https://php.net/manual/language.types.callable.php
[PHP_OOP5LSB]:  https://php.net/manual/language.oop5.late-static-bindings.php
[DEFACTO]:      http://www.phpdoc.org/docs/latest/index.html
[PHPDOC.ORG]:   http://www.phpdoc.org/
[FLUENT]:       https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fluent_interface
[TAG_PSR]:      TBD
