> This proposal is annotated with comments in quote blocks like this one. These
> annotations should help to clarify why certain passages exist and what other
> alternatives exist or have been tried.
>
> The final PSR will not contain these annotations, but a copy could be preserved
> for documentation purposes.
>
> **TL;DR**
>
> A namespaced path is a construct like the following TODO
>
> **Potential Formulation of an Autoloader PSR**
>
> TODO
>
> **Potential Formulation of a Resource Location PSR**
>
> TODO

Virtual Path Matching
=====================

This document describes an algorithm that finds the real path(s) for a virtual
path when given a mapping of path prefixes to directories.

The main goal is to provide a foundation for future PSRs based on this
algorithm, such as an autoloader PSR, a resource location PSR and so on.

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119).

1. Definitions
--------------

**Path Matcher**: A program implementing the path matching algorithm described
in section 2.

> This should neither be fixed to PHP code, nor C code, nor a method, nor a
> function. "Program" is a generic term that matches all of these concepts.

**Separator**: A single character chosen by the path matcher, e.g. a slash ("/").

> Allows to use this algorithm for both autoloading (separator: "\") and
> resource location (separator: "/").

**Path Prefix**: A sequence of zero or more path segments, divided by
separators. A path prefix MUST start with a separator character and MUST NOT end
with a separator, unless the prefix consists of a single symbol only. Given the
separator "/", then `/`, `/A` and `/A/B` are valid path prefixes.

**Prefix Mapping**: A set of path prefixes, each of which is assigned to one
or more existing directories on the local file system (the *base directories*).
The base directories MUST be provided either as absolute paths or as URIs with
one of the following schemes:

* file://
* phar://
* zlib://
* zip://
* bzip2://

**Mapped (Path) Prefix**: A path prefix contained in a given prefix mapping.

**Relative Path**: A sequence of zero or more path segments, divided by
separators. A relative path MUST NOT start or end with a separator character.
Given the separator "/", then `<empty>`, `A` and `A/B` are valid relative paths.
The symbol `<empty>` corresponds to an empty string.

**Virtual Path**: A path prefix followed by a relative path. A virtual path
MUST consist of one or more path segments.

> i.e. must have a vendor namespace
>
> Valid virtual paths:
>
> * \Acme
> * /Acme/Demo/Parser.php
>
> Virtual paths with just one segment are useful in the context of resource
> location.

2. Path Matching Algorithm
--------------------------

Compliant path matchers MUST implement this algorithm to find matches for
virtual paths.

Given the separator "/", a virtual path `A/B/C/D`, the path prefix `/A/B`,
the relative path `C/D` and a prefix mapping which assigns `/A/B` to the base
directory `/src`, then a *potential match* is generated by concatenating the
base directory, a slash ("/") and the relative path: `/src/C/D`. If the
relative path is empty, the trailing slash MUST be omitted in the potential
match: `/src`. Separators in the potential match MUST be replaced by slashes.

> Allows the use of other separators than slashes, e.g. backslashes ("\").

A potential match `/src/C/D` is *evaluated* by checking whether it exists on
the local file system. If it does, it is called a *match*.

> Matches must exist.

If a mapped path contains multiple mapped prefixes, potential matches for longer
prefixes MUST be evaluated before those for shorter prefixes.

> Self-explanatory.

If a prefix is mapped to multiple base directories, the potential matches MAY
be evaluated in any order.

> Path matchers can decide how to behave in this case (e.g. FIFO).

A path matcher MAY choose to abort this algorithm once a match has been found,
or continue in order to generate all matches.

> Find first vs. find all matches.

A path matcher MAY not find a match for a virtual path. The result in this
case is undefined.

> Exception, returning null etc. can be chosen by the implementation.

3. EBNF
-------

TODO

4. Example Implementations
--------------------------

TODO
