proposed/psr-4-autoloader/psr-4-autoloader-mini.md, before:

# PSR-4: Autoloader

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119).


## 1. Overview

This PSR describes a specification for [autoloading][] classes from file
paths. It is fully interoperable, and can be used in addition to any other
autoloading specification, including [PSR-0][]. This PSR also describes where
to place files that will be autoloaded according the specification.


## 2. Specification

1. The term "class" refers to classes, interfaces, traits, and other similar
   structures.

2. A fully qualified class name has the following form:

        \<NamespaceName>(\<SubNamespaceNames>)*\<ClassName>

    1. The fully qualified class name MUST have a top-level namespace name,
       also known as a "vendor namespace".

    2. The fully qualified class name MAY have one or more sub-namespace
       names.
    
    3. The fully qualified class name MUST have a terminating class name.

    4. Alphabetic characters in the fully qualified class name MAY be any
       combination of lower case and upper case.

    5. Fully qualified class names MUST NOT differ only in case.

    6. Underscores have no special meaning in any portion of the fully
       qualified class name.

3. When loading a file that corresponds to a fully qualified class name ...

    1. A contiguous series of one or more leading namespace names, not
       including the leading namespace separator, in the fully qualified class
       name (a "qualified name") corresponds to at least one "base directory".
      
    2. The contiguous sub-namespace names after the "qualified name"
       correspond to subdirectories of matching case within a "base
       directory", in which the namespace separators represent directory
       separators.

    3. The terminating class name corresponds to a file name of matching case
       ending in `.php`.

4. Autoloader implementations MUST NOT throw exceptions, MUST NOT raise errors
   of any level, and SHOULD NOT return a value.


## 3. Examples

The table below shows the corresponding file paths [4] given inputs [1], [2],
and [3]:

| 1. Fully Qualified Class Name | 2. Qualified Name  | 3. Base Directory        | 4. Corresponding File Path
| ------------------------------|--------------------|--------------------------|-------------------------------------------
| \Acme\Log\Writer\File_Writer  | Acme\Log\Writer    | ./acme-log-writer/lib/   | ./acme-log-writer/lib/File_Writer.php
| \Aura\Web\Response\Status     | Aura\Web           | /path/to/aura-web/src/   | /path/to/aura-web/src/Response/Status.php
| \Symfony\Core\Request         | Symfony\Core       | ./vendor/Symfony/Core/   | ./vendor/Symfony/Core/Request.php
| \Zend\Acl                     | Zend               | /usr/includes/Zend/      | /usr/includes/Zend/Acl.php

For example implementations of autoloaders conforming to the specification,
please see the [examples file][]. Example implementations MUST NOT be regarded
as part of the specification and MAY change at any time.

[autoloading]: http://php.net/autoload
[PSR-0]: https://github.com/php-fig/fig-standards/blob/master/accepted/PSR-0.md
[examples file]: psr-4-autoloader-examples.php

Commit message:

extract 'matching case' to its own sentence, twice, per @crell and @ircmaxell

proposed/psr-4-autoloader/psr-4-autoloader-mini.md, after:

# PSR-4: Autoloader

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119).


## 1. Overview

This PSR describes a specification for [autoloading][] classes from file
paths. It is fully interoperable, and can be used in addition to any other
autoloading specification, including [PSR-0][]. This PSR also describes where
to place files that will be autoloaded according the specification.


## 2. Specification

1. The term "class" refers to classes, interfaces, traits, and other similar
   structures.

2. A fully qualified class name has the following form:

        \<NamespaceName>(\<SubNamespaceNames>)*\<ClassName>

    1. The fully qualified class name MUST have a top-level namespace name,
       also known as a "vendor namespace".

    2. The fully qualified class name MAY have one or more sub-namespace
       names.
    
    3. The fully qualified class name MUST have a terminating class name.

    4. Alphabetic characters in the fully qualified class name MAY be any
       combination of lower case and upper case.

    5. Fully qualified class names MUST NOT differ only in case.

    6. Underscores have no special meaning in any portion of the fully
       qualified class name.

3. When loading a file that corresponds to a fully qualified class name ...

    1. A contiguous series of one or more leading namespace names, not
       including the leading namespace separator, in the fully qualified class
       name (a "qualified name") corresponds to at least one "base directory".
      
    2. The contiguous sub-namespace names after the "qualified name"
       correspond to a subdirectory within a "base directory", in which the
       namespace separators represent directory separators. The subdirectory
       name MUST match the case of the sub-namespace names.

    3. The terminating class name corresponds to a file name ending in `.php`.
       The file name MUST match the case of the terminating class name.
    
4. Autoloader implementations MUST NOT throw exceptions, MUST NOT raise errors
   of any level, and SHOULD NOT return a value.


## 3. Examples

The table below shows the corresponding file paths [4] given inputs [1], [2],
and [3]:

| 1. Fully Qualified Class Name | 2. Qualified Name  | 3. Base Directory        | 4. Corresponding File Path
| ------------------------------|--------------------|--------------------------|-------------------------------------------
| \Acme\Log\Writer\File_Writer  | Acme\Log\Writer    | ./acme-log-writer/lib/   | ./acme-log-writer/lib/File_Writer.php
| \Aura\Web\Response\Status     | Aura\Web           | /path/to/aura-web/src/   | /path/to/aura-web/src/Response/Status.php
| \Symfony\Core\Request         | Symfony\Core       | ./vendor/Symfony/Core/   | ./vendor/Symfony/Core/Request.php
| \Zend\Acl                     | Zend               | /usr/includes/Zend/      | /usr/includes/Zend/Acl.php

For example implementations of autoloaders conforming to the specification,
please see the [examples file][]. Example implementations MUST NOT be regarded
as part of the specification and MAY change at any time.

[autoloading]: http://php.net/autoload
[PSR-0]: https://github.com/php-fig/fig-standards/blob/master/accepted/PSR-0.md
[examples file]: psr-4-autoloader-examples.php
