proposed/http-client/http-client.md, before:

HTTP Client
===========

This document describes a common interface for sending HTTP requests and receiving HTTP responses.

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119).

## Goal

The goal of this PSR is to allow developers to create libraries decoupled from HTTP client
implementations. This will make libraries more reusable as it reduces the number of
dependencies and lowers the likelihood of version conflicts.

A second goal is that HTTP clients can be replaced as per the
[Liskov substitutions principle][Liskov]. This means that all clients MUST behave in the
same way when sending a request.

## Definitions

* **Client** - A Client is a library that implements this specification for the purposes of
sending PSR-7-compatible HTTP Request messages and returning a PSR-7-compatible HTTP Response message to a Caller.
* **Caller** - A Caller is any code that makes use of a Client.

## Client

A Client is an object implementing `ClientInterface`.

A Client MAY:

* Elect to send an altered HTTP request from the one it was provided.  For example, it could
compress an outgoing message body.
* Elect to alter a received HTTP response before returning it to the caller. For example, it could
decompress an incoming message body.

If a Client chooses to alter either the HTTP request or HTTP response, it MUST ensure that the
response remains internally consistent.  For example, if a Client chooses to decompress the message
body then it MUST also remove the `Content-Encoding` header and adjust the `Content-Length` header.

### Exceptions

All exceptions thrown by the client MUST implement `Psr\Http\Client\ClientExceptionInterface`.

When the HTTP client is called with a request that is invalid and cannot be sent, the client
MUST throw a `Psr\Http\Client\RequestExceptionInterface`. If there is an error
with the network or the remote server cannot be reached, the HTTP client MUST throw
a `Psr\Http\Client\NetworkExceptionInterface`.

Smaller issues that do not block the client from sending the request (such as
invalid HTTP versions) MUST NOT result in exceptions.

If the remote server answers with a response that can be parsed into a PSR-7 response,
the client MUST NOT throw an exception. For example, response status codes in the
400 and 500 range MUST NOT cause an exception.

## Interfaces

### ClientInterface

```php
namespace Psr\Http\Client;

use Psr\Http\Message\RequestInterface;
use Psr\Http\Message\ResponseInterface;

interface ClientInterface
{
    /**
     * Sends a PSR-7 request and returns a PSR-7 response.
     *
     * Every technically correct HTTP response MUST be returned as-is, even if it represents an HTTP
     * error response or a redirect instruction. The only special case is 1xx responses, which MUST
     * be assembled in the HTTP client.
     *
     * The client MAY do modifications to the Request before sending it. Because PSR-7 objects are
     * immutable, one cannot assume that the object passed to ClientInterface::sendRequest() will be the same
     * object that is actually sent. For example, the Request object that is returned by an exception MAY
     * be a different object than the one passed to sendRequest, so comparison by reference (===) is not possible.
     *
     * {@link https://github.com/php-fig/fig-standards/blob/master/accepted/PSR-7-http-message-meta.md#why-value-objects}
     *
     * @param RequestInterface $request
     *
     * @return ResponseInterface
     *
     * @throws \Psr\Http\Client\ClientExceptionInterface If an error happens while processing the request.
     */
    public function sendRequest(RequestInterface $request): ResponseInterface;
}
```

### ExceptionInterface

```php
namespace Psr\Http\Client;

/**
 * Every HTTP client related exception MUST implement this interface.
 */
interface ClientExceptionInterface extends \Throwable
{
}
```

### RequestExceptionInterface

```php
namespace Psr\Http\Client;

use Psr\Http\Message\RequestInterface;

/**
 * Exception for when a request failed.
 *
 * Examples:
 *      - Request is invalid (e.g. method is missing)
 *      - Runtime request errors (e.g. the body stream is not seekable)
 */
interface RequestExceptionInterface extends ClientExceptionInterface
{
    /**
     * Returns the request.
     *
     * The request object MAY be a different object from the one passed to ClientInterface::sendRequest()
     *
     * @return RequestInterface
     */
    public function getRequest(): RequestInterface;
}
```

### NetworkExceptionInterface

```php
namespace Psr\Http\Client;

use Psr\Http\Message\RequestInterface;

/**
 * Thrown when the request cannot be completed because of network issues.
 *
 * There is no response object as this exception is thrown when no response has been received.
 *
 * Example: the target host name can not be resolved or the connection failed.
 */
interface NetworkExceptionInterface extends ClientExceptionInterface
{
    /**
     * Returns the request.
     *
     * The request object MAY be a different object from the one passed to ClientInterface::sendRequest()
     *
     * @return RequestInterface
     */
    public function getRequest(): RequestInterface;
}
```

[Liskov]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liskov_substitution_principle

Commit message:

Break up the error handling description to make it more precise.

proposed/http-client/http-client.md, after:

HTTP Client
===========

This document describes a common interface for sending HTTP requests and receiving HTTP responses.

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119).

## Goal

The goal of this PSR is to allow developers to create libraries decoupled from HTTP client
implementations. This will make libraries more reusable as it reduces the number of
dependencies and lowers the likelihood of version conflicts.

A second goal is that HTTP clients can be replaced as per the
[Liskov substitutions principle][Liskov]. This means that all clients MUST behave in the
same way when sending a request.

## Definitions

* **Client** - A Client is a library that implements this specification for the purposes of
sending PSR-7-compatible HTTP Request messages and returning a PSR-7-compatible HTTP Response message to a Caller.
* **Caller** - A Caller is any code that makes use of a Client.

## Client

A Client is an object implementing `ClientInterface`.

A Client MAY:

* Elect to send an altered HTTP request from the one it was provided.  For example, it could
compress an outgoing message body.
* Elect to alter a received HTTP response before returning it to the caller. For example, it could
decompress an incoming message body.

If a Client chooses to alter either the HTTP request or HTTP response, it MUST ensure that the
response remains internally consistent.  For example, if a Client chooses to decompress the message
body then it MUST also remove the `Content-Encoding` header and adjust the `Content-Length` header.

A Client MUST:

* Reassemble a multi-step HTTP 1xx response itself so that what is returned to the Caller is an valid HTTP response
of status code 200 or higher.

## Error handling

A Client MUST NOT treat a well-formed HTTP request or HTTP response as an error condition.  For example, response
status codes in the 400 and 500 range MUST NOT cause an exception and MUST be returned to the Caller as normal.

A Client MUST throw an instance of `Psr\Http\Client\ClientExceptionInterface` if and only if it is unable to send
the HTTP request at all or if no HTTP response is ever returned (such as a timeout).

If a request cannot be sent because the request message is not a valid HTTP request, the Client MUST throw an instance
of `Psr\Http\Client\RequestExceptionInterface`.

If the request cannot be sent due to a network failure of any kind the Client MUST throw an instance of
`Psr\Http\Client\NetworkExceptionInterface`.

## Interfaces

### ClientInterface

```php
namespace Psr\Http\Client;

use Psr\Http\Message\RequestInterface;
use Psr\Http\Message\ResponseInterface;

interface ClientInterface
{
    /**
     * Sends a PSR-7 request and returns a PSR-7 response.
     *
     * Every technically correct HTTP response MUST be returned as-is, even if it represents an HTTP
     * error response or a redirect instruction. The only special case is 1xx responses, which MUST
     * be assembled in the HTTP client.
     *
     * The client MAY do modifications to the Request before sending it. Because PSR-7 objects are
     * immutable, one cannot assume that the object passed to ClientInterface::sendRequest() will be the same
     * object that is actually sent. For example, the Request object that is returned by an exception MAY
     * be a different object than the one passed to sendRequest, so comparison by reference (===) is not possible.
     *
     * {@link https://github.com/php-fig/fig-standards/blob/master/accepted/PSR-7-http-message-meta.md#why-value-objects}
     *
     * @param RequestInterface $request
     *
     * @return ResponseInterface
     *
     * @throws \Psr\Http\Client\ClientExceptionInterface If an error happens while processing the request.
     */
    public function sendRequest(RequestInterface $request): ResponseInterface;
}
```

### ExceptionInterface

```php
namespace Psr\Http\Client;

/**
 * Every HTTP client related exception MUST implement this interface.
 */
interface ClientExceptionInterface extends \Throwable
{
}
```

### RequestExceptionInterface

```php
namespace Psr\Http\Client;

use Psr\Http\Message\RequestInterface;

/**
 * Exception for when a request failed.
 *
 * Examples:
 *      - Request is invalid (e.g. method is missing)
 *      - Runtime request errors (e.g. the body stream is not seekable)
 */
interface RequestExceptionInterface extends ClientExceptionInterface
{
    /**
     * Returns the request.
     *
     * The request object MAY be a different object from the one passed to ClientInterface::sendRequest()
     *
     * @return RequestInterface
     */
    public function getRequest(): RequestInterface;
}
```

### NetworkExceptionInterface

```php
namespace Psr\Http\Client;

use Psr\Http\Message\RequestInterface;

/**
 * Thrown when the request cannot be completed because of network issues.
 *
 * There is no response object as this exception is thrown when no response has been received.
 *
 * Example: the target host name can not be resolved or the connection failed.
 */
interface NetworkExceptionInterface extends ClientExceptionInterface
{
    /**
     * Returns the request.
     *
     * The request object MAY be a different object from the one passed to ClientInterface::sendRequest()
     *
     * @return RequestInterface
     */
    public function getRequest(): RequestInterface;
}
```

[Liskov]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liskov_substitution_principle
