proposed/autoloader/combined.md, before:

PSR-X: Autoloader
=================

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119).


1. Overview
-----------

This PSR specifies the rules for an interoperable PHP autoloader which maps
namespaces to file system paths, and that can co-exist with any other SPL
registered autoloader.


2. Definitions
--------------

- **class**: The term _class_ refers to PHP classes, interfaces, and traits.

- **fully qualified class name**: The full namespace and class name, with the
  leading namespace separator. (This is per the
  [Name Resolution Rules](http://php.net/manual/en/language.namespaces.rules.php)
  from the PHP manual.)

- **namespace name**: Given a _fully qualified class name_ of
  `\Foo\Bar\Baz\Qux`, the _namespace names_ are `Foo`, `Bar`, and `Baz`.
  
- **namespace prefix**: Given a _fully qualified class name_ of
  `\Foo\Bar\Baz\Qux`, the _namespace prefix_ may be `\Foo\`, `\Foo\Bar\`, or
  `\Foo\Bar\Baz\`.

- **relative class name**: The parts of the _fully qualified class name_ that
  appear after the _namespace prefix_. Given a _fully qualified class name_ of
  `\Foo\Bar\Baz\Qux` and a _namespace prefix_ of `\Foo\Bar\`, the _relative
  class name_ is `Baz\Qux`.

- **base directory**: The directory path in the file system where the files
  for _relative class names_ have their root. Given a namespace prefix of 
  `\Foo\Bar\`, the _base directory_ could be `/path/to/packages/foo-bar/src`.

- **mapped file name**: The path in the file system resulting from the
  transformation of a _fully qualified class name_. Given a _fully qualified
  class name_ of `\Foo\Bar\Baz\Qux`, a namespace prefix of `\Foo\Bar\`, and a
  _base directory_ of `/path/to/packages/foo-bar/src`, the transformation
  rules in the specification will result in a _mapped file name_ of
  `/path/to/packages/foo-bar/src/Baz/Qux.php`.


3. Specification
----------------

- The fully qualified class name MUST begin with a top-level namespace name,
  which MUST be followed by zero or more sub-namespace names, and MUST end in
  a class name.

- A namespace prefix of the fully qualified class name MUST be mapped to a
  base directory; that namespace prefix MAY be mapped to more than one base
  directory.

- The fully-qualified class name MUST be transformed into a mapped file name
  by:

    - replacing the namespace prefix in the fully-qualified class name with
      the associated base directory;

    - replacing namespace separators in the relative class name with directory
      separators; and,
      
    - suffixing the result with `.php`.
    
- If the mapped file name exists in the file system, the registered autoloader
  MUST include or require it.

- The registered autoloader MUST NOT throw exceptions, MUST NOT raise errors
  of any level, and SHOULD NOT return a value.


4. Implementations
------------------

Implementations MAY contain additional features and MAY differ in how they are
implemented.

For example implemenations, see _CombinedTest.php_. Example implementations
MUST NOT be regarded as part of the specification; they are examples only, and
may change at any time.

Commit message:

split out various rules to their own subsections

proposed/autoloader/combined.md, after:

PSR-X: Autoloader
=================

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119).


1. Overview
-----------

This PSR specifies the rules for an interoperable PHP autoloader which maps
namespaces to file system paths, and that can co-exist with any other SPL
registered autoloader.


2. Definitions
--------------

- **class**: The term _class_ refers to PHP classes, interfaces, and traits.

- **fully qualified class name**: The full namespace and class name, with the
  leading namespace separator. (This is per the
  [Name Resolution Rules](http://php.net/manual/en/language.namespaces.rules.php)
  from the PHP manual.)

- **namespace name**: Given a _fully qualified class name_ of
  `\Foo\Bar\Baz\Qux`, the _namespace names_ are `Foo`, `Bar`, and `Baz`.
  
- **namespace prefix**: Given a _fully qualified class name_ of
  `\Foo\Bar\Baz\Qux`, the _namespace prefix_ may be `\Foo\`, `\Foo\Bar\`, or
  `\Foo\Bar\Baz\`.

- **relative class name**: The parts of the _fully qualified class name_ that
  appear after the _namespace prefix_. Given a _fully qualified class name_ of
  `\Foo\Bar\Baz\Qux` and a _namespace prefix_ of `\Foo\Bar\`, the _relative
  class name_ is `Baz\Qux`.

- **base directory**: The directory path in the file system where the files
  for _relative class names_ have their root. Given a namespace prefix of 
  `\Foo\Bar\`, the _base directory_ could be `/path/to/packages/foo-bar/src`.

- **mapped file name**: The path in the file system resulting from the
  transformation of a _fully qualified class name_. Given a _fully qualified
  class name_ of `\Foo\Bar\Baz\Qux`, a namespace prefix of `\Foo\Bar\`, and a
  _base directory_ of `/path/to/packages/foo-bar/src`, the transformation
  rules in the specification will result in a _mapped file name_ of
  `/path/to/packages/foo-bar/src/Baz/Qux.php`.


3. Specification
----------------

### 3.1. Fully-Qualifed Class Names

The fully qualified class name MUST begin with a top-level namespace name,
which MUST be followed by zero or more sub-namespace names, and MUST end in a
class name.

### 3.2 Namespace Prefixes and Base Directories

At least one namespace prefix of the fully qualified class name MUST
correspond to a base directory.

A namespace prefix MAY correspond to more than one base directory.

### 3.3. Registered Autoloaders

The registered autoloader MUST be transform the fully-qualified class name
using the rules in section 3.4; the result MUST be suffixed with `.php` to
result in a mapped file name.

If the mapped file name exists in the file system, the registered autoloader
MUST include or require it.

The registered autoloader MUST NOT throw exceptions, MUST NOT raise errors of
any level, and SHOULD NOT return a value.

### 3.4. Transformation

The namespace prefix in the fully-qualified class name MUST be replaced with
the corresponding base directory,

Namespace separators in the relative class name MUST be replaced with
directory separators.


4. Implementations
------------------

Implementations MAY contain additional features and MAY differ in how they are
implemented.

For example implemenations, see _CombinedTest.php_. Example implementations
MUST NOT be regarded as part of the specification; they are examples only, and
may change at any time.
